The Project Gutenberg eBook of The gospel object book
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The gospel object book
        A hand-book on object teaching for ministers, teachers of children and adults

Author: C. H. Woolston

Release date: April 13, 2024 [eBook #73388]

Language: English

Original publication: Chicago: W.P. BLESSING CO, 1925

Credits: Jonathan Gregory


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GOSPEL OBJECT BOOK ***





Transcriber's Notes:

Italicized text is rendered as _text_, bold text is rendered as
=text=.




[Illustration: The book's cover]



                                 =The
                             Gospel Object
                                 Book=
                                 _By_
                  REV. CLARENCE H. WOOLSTON, D.D.
                            The RODEHEAVER
                             HALL-MACK Co

28 East Jackson Boulevard
CHICAGO

124 North Fifteenth Street
PHILADELPHIA

COPYRIGHT 1925 BY W.P. BLESSING CO.
Printed in U.S.A.




                             =Dedication=

THIS book is dedicated to the wonderful children of the Cedar Falls
(Iowa) Bible Conference. They have seen these lessons during the
summers of 1923 and 1924. Many of them thus seeing have entered the
Glad Game of the Christian.


I wish also to acknowledge the brotherly kindness of Rev. Parley E.
Zartmann, D.D., the spiritual director of the Conference which made my
meeting with the children possible.


This book is now sent forth on its mission, every lesson crowned with
the smiles of the Happy Children of Cedar Falls, Iowa.

                                                  C. H. Woolston, D.D.
_Study of the East Baptist Church,_
_Philadelphia, Pa., U. S. A._




                              =PREFACE=

JESUS said to Peter--Lovest thou me--and when Peter had given his
answer Jesus said "Feed my Lambs." The Master told him first to Feed
the Lambs, afterward he said "Feed my Sheep." Jesus put first things
first. Did Peter obey this command? We have no record of him giving
especial attention to the Lambs. I imagine he was like the most and
best of us--he forgot the Lambs. Let us try to remember what Jesus
said. Feed the Lambs. The best way is to get them through the eye.
Children see 18 times more through the eye than they hear through the
ear. Eighty per cent of all the knowledge we receive from the cradle
to the grave comes through the eye. It is the Big Highway with wide
gates ever open to the heart of a child.

The moving pictures of the day are visited daily in the United States
by six million of little children. This one, thing they are doing for
the children: they are training them to look and see things; they are
learning to be good lookers; they come to us in our Sunday Schools and
children's meetings with eyes trained to look and happy is the teacher
if he can show them truth. This he can do by object lessons. I have
talked to over a million and a half of children by the use of objects;
many of them have grown into adulthood and often when I talk to them
of other days, they rehearse these lessons to me and I can thus see
how well they remember and how deep and lasting is the impression made
when truth enters the eye. It enters to stay. These visual lessons
outlined in this book will help you to Feed the Lambs.

Somewhere I read the other day, about the boy who was present when
Christ was feeding the multitude and this was the analysis that the
teacher made of the boy with the loaves and fishes. First you will
always find the boy in a crowd. Second, he always looks out for his
stomach and so brought with him his lunch. Third, he can be worked and
won if he is approached in the proper way, and to find the proper way
is to find the golden key which unlocks a golden heart that will
welcome the entrance of the golden truth of Jesus. One of the first
principles of the knowledge of a child is that he is all eyes.
Psychologists tell us that we see eighteen times more than we hear,
but no psychologist has ever been able yet to figure out how much a
boy can see. It seems to me that he sees fifty times more than he
hears. That has been my experience, as I have labored with a million
and a half boys and girls. Hence it is the first principle of the art
of knowing children, the quickest and best way to teach them is
through the eye, and so the use of pictures and objects and all things
which appeal to the child's eye are master keys that unlock hearts.
They receive the impressions through the eye, and these they seldom
ever cast away. In discovering a child, always remember what a child
may be and what he is now. We must have this long look into the future
or we won't be able to look into the present, He is a whole congress
of possibilities. Possibilities are the seeds that may germinate into
a mighty force for good or evil.

There was once a teacher in old New England who taught a little
district school, who had the gift of reading the possibilities of her
children and trying to develop those possibilities. Her name was Miss
Crochet. She could easily tell whether the disorderly boy was vicious
or suffering from an overdose of animation. She understood children.
One day while she was at prayer, a little boy in her class laughed out
loud. After the prayer she said, "Who was that laughing while I was
praying?" A little bit of a fellow held up his hand and said he did
the laughing. The teacher said, "What were you laughing at?"
"Something that Billy said, who sits next to me." "Billy, what did you
tell him that caused him to laugh?" "I saw a little mouse." "What did
you say about that mouse, Billy?" He said, "While Miss Crochet was
saying her prayer a little gray mouse ran down the stairs." Of course,
all the children laughed and the teacher said, "That was very bright,
Billy. I think you have got the making of a poet in you. At least I am
going to satisfy myself on that point." So Billy was called to the
front. Miss Crochet, wanting to find out something about the boy,
looked down at him and said, "I wonder if there is a possibility of
making a poet out of this child." It certainly sounded so when he
composed his first lines of poetry. So she said to him, "I will see
whether you are a boy of mischief and interrupted my prayer as a
disorderly act, or whether it was simply an overflow of an
unrestrained impulse to say words poetically. I will give you three
minutes to compose another line. If you do it in that time, and it is
as good as your first lines, I will not punish you, but if you do not,
I shall bring my rod down over your shoulder." So she said to him,
"Compose your lines in three minutes or take your punishment." One
minute passed, the second minute passed and there was no response from
the boy. The teacher said, "There is only one minute left, now speak
or be punished." The little fellow lifted up his head and said, "Here
I stand by the side of Miss Crochet, when she brings down the rod, I
intend to dodge it." She laughed, they all laughed, she said he would
make a bright boy. She encouraged him in the writing of lines and he
afterwards became a poet of fame. She understood Billy and so made
Billy great.

Don't forget the boy is all eyes. Fill them full of truth. What you
tell him may "go in one ear and out the other" but what you show him
will not go in one eye and out the other eye. What does go in the eyes
will stick in the head. And so the truth is carved in with it. The boy
likes to see things, so show him Bible truth. That is the way to
interest him, It is a sin to make Bible truth uninteresting. Know the
child, and that will go a long way to prevent you from committing this
sin.

                                                        C. H. WOOLSTON
_Philadelphia, Pa._




                              =CONTENTS=

                                                                  PAGE
INTRODUCTION ...................................................... vi
CHAPTER
I. THE TEN DEMANDMENTS ............................................  1
II. OBJECT TEACHING IN THE BIBLE ..................................  4
III. UNDERSTANDING YOUR OBJECT ....................................  7
IV. INCENSE LESSONS ...............................................  9
V. THE BURNING OF THE IDOL ........................................ 10
VI. EARS OPEN TO GOD'S CALL ....................................... 11
VII. IT WILL ALL BE RIGHT AT LAST ................................. 12
VIII. THE MAKING OF A CHRISTIAN ................................... 13
IX. THE HAND OF FAITH ............................................. 16
X. BEFORE AND AFTER ............................................... 17
XI. WHY I SHOULD JOIN THE CHURCH .................................. 18
XII. SEEING THE SERMON ............................................ 19
XIII. THE BIG SIX ................................................. 20
XIV. HOW GOD SEES THINGS .......................................... 21
XV. JOHN 3:16 IN COLORS ........................................... 23
XVI. THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO THE MAGNET ........................... 25
XVII. THE STAR BOX ................................................ 26
XVIII. HOW MARY LOST HER BEAUTIFUL DOLL ........................... 29
XIX. THE PRODIGAL SON IN RAGS ..................................... 31
XX. WHAT CAN TAKE AWAY MY SINS .................................... 35
XXI. THE GOSPEL COPY BOOK ......................................... 37
XXII. IN HIS KEEPING .............................................. 38
XXIII. A CANDLE LIGHT LESSON ...................................... 40
XXIV. THOSE TEN FRIENDS OF MINE ................................... 42
XXV. THE HEAVENLY MAIL FOR THE DISCIPLES .......................... 44
XXVI. THERE'S A MESSAGE IN THE CANDLE ............................. 46
XXVII. THE LONG AND SHORT OF IT ................................... 48
XXVIII. PULLING OUT THE NAIL HOLES ................................ 50
XXIX. THE BURIED BIBLE ............................................ 51
XXX. THE CHRISTMAS CANDLE ......................................... 56




                            =INTRODUCTION=

WHEN the disciples were concerned as to precedence and position in the
Kingdom of Heaven, Jesus took a little child, and set him in the midst
of them. The act was in itself full of significance; and the teaching
He gave in connection therewith, abides for all time, a clear
revelation of Kingdom conditions and obligations.

It is only as men and women become as little children that they can
enter into that Kingdom; and the measure in which they approximate to
the child spirit, is the means of their greatness therein.

Further--any one receiving a little child receives the Lord--the child
is forever the ambassador of the throng; rather than cause one such to
stumble, it were preferable to pass out of life by a violent way.
These little ones are to be held therefore in high honour--never
despised.

To gather and hold the children it is necessary, not only to
understand the child, but also to be of the child spirit. The study of
child psychology is fascinating, and of great value; but one may be an
expert therein, and never attract a little one. To do that, the very
tone and temper of childhood is necessary.

The writer of this book, Dr. C. H. Woolston, fulfils these conditions
in the most conspicuous way; and is fulfilling the obligations with
the most radiant success. He has dedicated the book to The Children of
Cedar Falls. He might have dedicated it to children in every centre
where he has worked among them. It is fitting, however, that I should
be privileged to write a brief foreword to this book because it is
here, at Cedar Falls, that I have seen most of him at his work, though
I have seen his work also at Winona Lake.

I am certain that I speak, not only for myself but for all the
speakers at this Conference, and for those who have attended it, when
I say that one of the supreme things of delight and of light has been
Dr. Woolston and his bairns.

The children gather about him, and follow him round, not only to their
own meetings, but to adult gatherings like bees about the flowers.
Moreover, when he is at work, there is invariably a fringe of children
of an older growth at his meetings. In his eyes are the dancing lights
of childhood yet, and he radiates the child spirit.

What wonder then that the bairns love him, and God uses him so
wonderfully to shepherd and feed the lambs of his flock.

The reader of these talks will not have the wonderful personality of
the writer, but they will surely find much of the charm of his
remarkable ability to talk to children, not patronizingly as one apart
and aloof, but in close comradeship, as one of themselves, gleeful in
their glee, tender in their sorrows, sympathetic with their trials,
representing to them the Lord and Lover of them all.

With unbounded affection for the man, and confidence in his work, I
commend this book to all who love the Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity
and truth, and who therefore perforce are lovers of the little ones.

                                                    G. CAMPBELL MORGAN




                              =CHAPTER I
                        "THE TEN DEMANDMENTS"=

  _A Chapter to be often read as we study the art of object teaching.
  Follow these 10 Rules--they are Ten Steps to the Palace of Success_

                          THE TEN DEMANDMENTS

IN teaching children and others how to visualize God's truth, we must
remember the Ten Demandments and keep them.

_First Demandment:_ You must love the child. Preaching to children is
an _affair of the heart._ You must love them before you can reach them
with the truth. A teacher seeking to win and teach little hearts must
first have the degree of L. L. C. which being interpreted means "Love
Little Children." God will confer on you this degree. Don't begin
until God marks you with it.

_Second Demandment:_ You must remember that the eye is the child's
open door to the heart. It is eighteen times larger than the ear gate.
They receive eighteen times more truth by their eyes than they do
through their ears. They are always seeing things. You must remember
this--sayeth the Second Demandment.

_Third Demandment:_ You must believe in the large opportunity and high
privileges of working with children. It is the mountain top of
importance. It is dealing with the largest soul value of the world. It
yields quickly its reward. Be first on the ground. It is the richest
ground in the Kingdom of Heaven. It brings early harvest--a harvest of
Gold.

_Fourth Demandment:_ You must learn to know the child, study him like
you would a book, or as carefully as you do your lessons. Study him at
close range, and by loving contact. Chum with him. The best text book
on the child question is the child himself. Master your object as well
as your subject. This is the highest teaching of the highest order.
Read Chapter III of this book.

_Fifth Demandment:_ You must use short words. Little folks like to
catch your meaning at first hearing. Listen to them as they talk one
with another. They use but few words, and they are short and to the
point. Use common words, because they use them. Don't use silly words
or baby talk, or speak in an unnatural tone of voice. They don't like
affected tones. They don't talk that way when they address each other.
They don't want you to talk to them in that fashion. They call it
"silly" and "sissy." It takes an educated man to use their language,
but go to the University of Childhood and learn there to be an
uncommon talker--which means--talk the talk of childhood.

_Sixth Demandment:_ You must be brief. Much of our work with children
is useless, because it is over done in the matter of time. Cut it
short so it will cut in--always just when they want more, and the next
time, they will be glad to listen to you. Clothe your ideas in short
sentences. Seldom use words over two syllables, and even then make
them the words they use when they are doing their own talking. In
using the objects always hold them up in full view of the children,
and keep them there. In a short sentence name the object you are thus
about to use. It will keep them from spending the time wondering what
the object might be. Let the object talk and it will. Make your talk
short, and stop when you are through. Be brief, but full of ideas.

_Seventh Demandment:_ You must be sure to preach the Bible. To get the
Bible into their hearts is _your_ task. Stick to your task. All truth
is good, but Bible truth is best. Use the best with little hearts. The
Bible is the greatest story book in the world. That is the reason
little folks like it when you tell them the wonder stories out of it.
Show them a story. Clothe a lad in oriental garb, and call him Joseph,
and while they are looking at him, tell them the much loved story of
Joseph and his brethren. Give the boy a lunch basket, and tell the
story of the boy that supplied five thousand with his lunch one day
when he passed the basket and its contents, over to the Master. This
is putting the story over by objects, and it puts it in and under and
it sticks for all time.

_Eighth Demandment:_ You must begin with the known, and work up to the
unknown in the handling of objects. Jesus asked for a drink of water
from the Samaritan woman and from that water from Jacob's well from
which she had drawn the water for her home since childhood, He began
to reveal to her the water of Life, and she drank from that fountain,
and her home town in Samaria had a Billy Sunday awakening from the
well of Jacob. Jesus began with water from the Well of Jacob. He ended
with a talk about the water which cometh down from above.

It will help you and greatly vary your program if you ask the children
to bring their own objects with them some times which they have found
by the wayside, and then you may give them a spiritual lesson. They
will never forget the lesson, and often, in other days, when they see
those objects again, they will remember your lesson.

_Ninth Demandment:_ You must not be afraid of object lessons which may
have a little slant in them toward a happy little surprise.

Sometimes the effect we were not looking for makes the most lasting
impression. It is this quality that makes a fairy tale so fascinating
to children. Wonder objects can make truth as charming as the ways of
fairies. Wonder objects provoke curiosity, and curiosity is the mother
of attention. This is the best type of attention. Look over the wonder
lessons of this book and work them. Children never forget a thing as
long as they continue to wonder about it.

_Tenth Demandment:_ You must pray over and about your objects. Just as
the minister prays over the elements of the Lord's Supper, so pray
over your objects. God can bless things as well as words, and this He
will do if both things and words are used for His glory. These Ten
Demandments are like ten guiding stars throbbing in the night. All of
them are Pilot Stars seeking to guide the wise lovers of children as
did their Father's star long ago to the place "where the young child
lay."




                             =CHAPTER II
                    "OBJECT TEACHING IN THE BIBLE"=

  _In this chapter we find the Bible authority and example for Object
    Teaching. Read this chapter before you give your first lesson_

                     OBJECT TEACHING IN THE BIBLE

THE Bible is the teacher's best handbook of object training. This is
true because the Bible is an oriental book, and the orientals received
truth through symbols and visual instruction. Their mannerisms were
symbolical, their holy writings radiant with visualized truth. So the
Bible weaves into its cloth of truth this gorgeous method of appeal.
Hence the Bible is something to look at as well as to read through.
The oriental mind grasped truth and the human mind elsewhere is cast
in the same mould. The universal mind follows the same program. The
perfect art of the religious teacher is to teach Bible truth in the
Bible method, and that method is "through the eye-gate into the
kingdom of the soul." Let us wander through the wonderland of the
Bible that we may learn the perfect art of great teaching.

The prophet Ezekiel was commanded to go out and set his face toward
Jerusalem, and there, in the presence of the people hold aloft his
sword and drop it to the ground and say "A sword is also sharpened"
meaning that war was soon to come down upon them, and the sword of
battle was sharpened for the fray. God was against them, and because
of their sins they were to be punished. Jeremiah also was an object
teacher for God and this was one of the lessons he taught the people.
He saw a potter shaping a vessel and it was marred in his hands. It
was defective in substance. Too much earth, and not enough of clay. He
broke the marred vessel and made another of better stuff; by this
object lesson, the prophet declared, Israel was defective; it had in
its composition too much earth; it was marred with idol dust and
earthly parts and so God would break Israel and make it over again.
Jeremiah at another time produced two baskets of figs and set them
before the Lord in the temple. One basket contained good figs, and the
other basket spoiled figs. The prophet explained this object lesson by
saying the-basket of good figs were God's good people. God will keep
them and save them. The bad figs represented the unfaithful people,
and they shall be scattered over the earth. This same prophet once
took a girdle and hid it from sight in a dark damp place where it
finally became mouldy and worthless. Then he brought it forth before
the people and holding it up said, "This girdle represents God's
people who have left the true fold, and joined themselves to idols of
the heathen races. They are no longer a fit girdle to wrap around His
loins as His peculiar and holy peoples." The prophet explains "Cleave
unto your God, as the girdle clings to the body, so shall ye be kept
close to him." Once more, this same prophet took a parchment and
before all the people wrote thereon the sins of the people. He then
read it once to them, rolled it up and bound a stone about it and cast
it into the river saying, "So shall Babylon be destroyed and pass
away."

This same object teaching prophet called the order of Rechabites
before him and set before them ten pots of wine and ordered them to
drink thereof, which of course they refused to do, and quoted the law
of their clan in defense of their act. The prophet then said--so will
you obey your earthly leaders, and their laws, but will not obey God
and his heavenly commandments. So we learn from these illustrations,
that God taught His people in their early days to "See Truth." Objects
were His text books. His first manuscript on the art of object
teaching He flung out upon the heavens,--it was the beautiful rainbow
which was an object to look at and when it appeared they were to
remember its teachings. There should never be another Deluge to
destroy the world. Ever since that day when He wants the earth to look
up and see His gorgeous object lesson, He sends forth the thunder to
herald its appearance. He washes out the atmosphere with His rain that
they can gaze upon it, and flashes out the lightning that their eyes
may be arrested to behold it. Then in glorious peace, with sunshine
dancing on its arching curves, He hangs out His object lesson, and we
look and remember the promises of God. Behold an object lesson in
colors! But, it has been remarked, this was God's method in teaching
the races back in their nursery days, but now the kindergarten days
are passed, and we are living in the golden age of civilization and
philosophy, and we must put away childish things. Let me remind you
that Jesus and Moses are alike as to method. They both represented the
Father, so both utilize the same method. They both taught by objects.
Moses of the Old Testament times, and Jesus of the advanced New
Testament times. Jesus knew the human heart and He knew it was best
for His day so to teach, for we receive eighteen times more truth
through the eyes than through the ear.

Jesus used this royal, broad and open wide road to the soul. It was
the best in the days of Moses. It was the best in the days of Jesus,
because it was the surest and quickest and most lasting of all
methods. Jesus left us two ordinances--the baptism of the believer and
the ordinance of the Lord's Supper. Both of these ordinances are built
around objects--water, bread and wine. All stand for the highest
things in our holy faith. These two ordinances are both holy
pantomimes, which by action, and use of objects, the faith of heaven
is perpetuated among men. This was the Master's method--make it yours.
the Master's truth in the Master's way is the masterful way of telling
forth the message of Peace on Earth Good Will Toward Men.




                             =CHAPTER III
                     "UNDERSTANDING YOUR OBJECT=

  _Know your subject well, but know also your object. Know the latter
   just a little better. This chapter will help you to do this task_

                      UNDERSTANDING YOUR OBJECT

BEFORE you teach young folks or old folks, fix it in your mind that it
is just as important to understand your object as well as your
subject. It is not sufficient that we know our subject well--this we
must do, of course. We must have a full knowledge of the subject and
then "some more," but this does not make us a Master teacher. A
teacher training class only goes half way in making us fit if it
simply prepares us to teach the subject matter of the lesson. You must
also understand the object. And the object is the child before you. So
often all the teaching is over their heads. They don't see the point.
There is no point, to them. How can they see it if in their minds it
does not exist? When the lesson is over they are "glad." Glad it is
all over, and they don't know what it is all about. The teacher did
not know the full lesson. She was full of her subject--she was
ignorant of her object. She did not understand the child. _Understand_
your object and by this we mean--understand the child. Always remember
the true child is not only a miniature adult and so dismiss the
thought at that--"only a man in the making" he doesn't count much
until he grows up and is not worthy special study in the period of
making. This is crotchet thinking. He belongs to as distinctive a race
as does the man of eighty. He has his own laws, his own reasons for
acting, and every act has a meaning all his own. It becomes our
business to discover the reasons why he says "those words" and to
discuss their meaning with him. We must try to see as the child sees,
and look at things from his viewpoint.

It is related that one of the most famous artists of his day had a
compelling ambition to paint the face of children. He was a pronounced
failure. The faces he painted resembled those of sober adults. He
could not dash into his pictures the touch of youth. He did not
understand children. He could not see with their eyes. One day, when
his study door was open, a little fellow came in and stood gazing at a
picture leaning up against the wall, its base resting on the floor. By
and by the artist saw him get down on all fours and gaze with
passionate intensity at the picture. The artist said "I would give
most anything if I could see what he sees." "You can," said a voice in
the halls of his mind, "if you look at the picture from his level." So
the artist got down on his knees beside the child and looked at his
own picture from the child's level. What he saw he never related, but
after that hour, he painted the "Angelic Faces"--a picture admired the
world over. He had found out a secret. He had seen things from a
child's level. What a miracle it is to know this! I would climb the
highest mountain, pierce the darkest jungle, cross the wildest sea,
explore the trackless desert, push on through the maddest night, gird
the earth a score of times--just to find him. I would rather know the
child and understand him, so I could reach his little soul than to
have discovered the North Pole.

Once upon a time there was a teacher who was instructing her class of
boys on the lesson of Jonah. She was a graduate of a string of
teacher-training classes. She had gone the limit in preparing her
lesson. She was full of the subject. She talked over the heads of the
boys. They did not understand even a little bit of the lesson. After
she had finished, she turned to her class and said "Now boys, what
does the story of Jonah teach you?" and one little fellow piped out,
"Please, teacher, the story of Jonah teaches me that you can't keep a
good man down." The teacher turned to young George and administered to
him a stinging rebuke, "How dare you," said she, "on the Sabbath Day,
in God's house and before the open Bible, make light of religious
matters? I am ashamed of you. If you were my son I would feed you on
bread and water for a week." Little George kept his eye on the door,
wondering if he could, with safety, make his escape. He never came
again. Now the teacher knew Jonah, but she didn't know George. If she
had said to George, "Now, George, that wasn't exactly the reply that I
wanted, but I am glad that you have got a thought about the lesson.
Come to my house next Tuesday night and take supper with me and I will
show you pictures of Jonah and tell you stories about this wonderful
man and then I think you will get it right in your head." If she had
tried this method she would have got the real Jonah into George and
she would have gotten George into her heart. If she had known as much
about George as she did about Jonah, she would have known that that
reply was a bit of pleasantry, coming spontaneously from a young
heart. She did not understand her object.




                              =CHAPTER IV
                           INCENSE LESSONS=

                    _Objects: Common Incense Cones_

                           INCENSE LESSONS

CHILDREN like to watch incense burn. In their imagination they see
dancing around in the little columns of smoke strange and wonderful
little shapes. Let us try to cause these smoke columns to tell God's
great message.

Incense is frequently mentioned in the Bible. It ascended from the
golden altar of the Tabernacle and was burning night and day. It was
never out. It stood for prayer, and we will now try and find out what
it says to us about talking to God.

Call to the platform a number of boys and girls each holding a little
plate: a tin plate will answer. Put on each plate about four incense
cones, which can be easily secured in the shops. One cone is not
sufficient to give enough smoke to be seen distinctly by the entire
audience. Say to the children as you light the cones, that incense
reminds us of prayer, because the smoke ascends just as our prayers go
up; and also tell them how to pray and how thoughtful they should be
as they pray, for God hears every word they say. For prayers go up
like incense. In the old Temple the incense was always burning, so
they should pray always as the good Book says "Pray without ceasing."
Now scatter them in various parts of the room. That will represent
_secret prayer._ Call them all to the platform and place them as close
to each other as possible; that will represent _united prayer._ While
they are standing in that position a large volume of smoke will be
ascending which will appeal to their little eyes and make a lasting
impression upon them. This you can call _the prayer meeting_ of one
accord.

As you call the children to the platform you can name them after the
various denominations, and thus illustrate how all the churches can
come together for prayer and how beautiful it looks to see them in
united prayer for the world.

The odor of the burning incense will be very evident by this time and
you may let this remind them that it is like the influence which
always emanates from the prayers that go up to God from believing
hearts.




                              =CHAPTER V
                        THE BURNING OF THE IDOL=

             _Objects: Denatured Alcohol; White of an Egg_

                        THE BURNING OF THE IDOL

THIS is a Temperance lesson, full of meaning for these days. Don't
fail to keep this Red Light of Danger burning. This lesson will be a
signal of fire. Pour out on a plate a small quantity of denatured
alcohol, and say "it looks like water." Shake the bottle--but it is
not pure, heaven-sent water, but a deadly poison. Read to them
Proverbs 23:31; 20:1. These are warnings from heaven against this
deadly poison. These words are like matches from God to light the red
lamp of danger. Alcohol is a deadly thing. God says so. Tell them that
it is the greatest idol in all the world. Millions worship it, for
every drinker of this red poison bows to this idol whenever he drinks.
Strike a match and set fire to it, and as it blazes forth say "I will
now burn the idol, because it is a burning idol, like the great Moloch
about which we read in the Old Testament, within whose blazing arms
little children were cast and burned to death. So this fiery idol
destroys millions. The Indians call it "fire-water" because it burns
the throat. This is the reason if you take one drink you want another.
Alcohol absorbs all the moisture of the throat and creates a thirst
which alcohol alone will quench; so it keeps on burning until it burns
up the stomach, the lungs, the heart, the brain, and yet men continue
to drink this fire of death.

Once upon a time there was a little monkey that was owned by the
keeper of a county tavern. Frequently he gave it a little taste of
this fire-water which caused him to jump about in great glee. This
pleased the bad men of the barroom greatly. One day a man lit a match
and set fire to the spoonful, and when the monkey saw it he fled in
terror and never touched it again. This was monkey sense; this was
better than man sense, for man knows it will burn, and yet returns to
it again. He needs a few monkey lessons. To deepen the impressions of
this lesson, you can take the white of an egg, a substance which
resembles the brain of a human being, place it in a cup and pour upon
it a small quantity of alcohol; then stir it with a spoon and it will
congeal as if it had been cooked. Take this out of the cup and it will
be solid like a boiled egg. This will illustrate the effect of alcohol
on the human brain. This is a lesson which burns itself into the
memory of the children for all time. This will hang up the 18th
amendment on nails of fire in the memory of the little folks and other
folks also. May the whole world soon go into this sort of fire
business.




                              =CHAPTER VI
                      EARS OPENED TO GOD'S CALL=

                        _Object: A Blackboard_

                      EARS OPENED TO GOD'S CALL

GOD is speaking to us all the time. We so often pay no heed to His
voice. Do we know the language he speaks? It is a secret tongue. Let
us try to learn it.

Once there was a prisoner who was cast into jail because he preached
Jesus. It seemed to him he was alone and without friends to help. But
there was another prisoner in an adjoining cell who knew him but could
not speak to him because the guards would hear his voice. At night the
lonely man would hear some one knocking on the wall. What did this
sound mean? What did the knocks say? At last he thought the knocks
might stand for the letters of the alphabet. One knock meant A, two
knocks B, etc. so he counted the taps one night. He counted twenty-one
taps. "That," said he, "means U." When he counted again it struck
fourteen times; that meant N. The next time it struck four times; that
meant D. Now he heard five taps; that meant E. Again he heard eighteen
taps; that stood for R. Then nineteen taps; that stood for S. Then
twenty taps; that meant T; then one tap which meant A; then fourteen,
N; then four, D; then the taps ceased and he knew the message had been
delivered and discovered the word meant UNDERSTAND. He answered by
twenty-five knocks which meant Y; then five taps for E; then nineteen
taps for S which spelled out his answer which was YES. They talked
together because they knew each other's language. God often knocks at
our heart's door. Some great trouble comes to our home. Over and over
He knocks and the knocking spells out the word COME, let us answer
25/Y 5/E 19/S.

Give them further illustration in knocks. They will like it.




                             =CHAPTER VII
                     IT WILL BE ALL RIGHT AT LAST=

               _Objects: A small number of little toys_

                     IT WILL BE ALL RIGHT AT LAST

ASK two little girls to come to the platform and say to them "I know
you little girls love each other, but do you like to see each other
receive good things?" Then say, as you hold up some small gift, "This
little treasure has been given to me to give to some little girl that
would be glad to receive it: but you see I cannot give it to both of
you, and how will I decide which girl shall receive it? If I give it
to this little girl then the other will be disappointed. Sometimes
great trouble comes to this world because one receives and the other
does not. However, I will take a chance and give it to this little
girl." And as you speak pass the toy to her. Turning to the other
girl, you say, "You don't feel hurt do you? I know you are glad to see
your little friend made happy. I also trust you are not displeased
with me for not giving it to you. Here learn the lesson some people
seem to get the good things of life, and others seem to go without."
Now without further remarks give the same girl another toy. Then that
is true to life also. Some seem to get all, and others get little or
nothing. Perhaps this little girl without anything seems to be saying
in her mind, she has two already, she might give me one, and at the
point pass a toy to the little girl that has none, but she says even
yet, the other girl has twice as many as I have, so she does not seem
to enjoy the one she has when she remembers the other girl has two. It
doesn't look right, does it? But she is a good little and girl and
says, "I will be thankful for what I have and try to be glad." At this
point you seem to be in deep study and finally say, "I just remember
that I have overlooked a little box," which you produce from some
corner and on opening it you discover another toy which you give to
the little girl with the one toy. Now they both have the same number
and so it is all right at last. This teaches us a lesson so hard to
learn in life,--how one man receives much, the other but little.
Strife and war are often the result of this condition but we must be
patient with our lot. God knows best. He will reward us in full by and
by so it will be all right at last.




                            =CHAPTER VIII
                      THE MAKING OF A CHRISTIAN=

    _Objects: Various Parts of a Flag Assembled in Their Respective
                                Places_

                      THE MAKING OF A CHRISTIAN

FOR this lesson procure parts of the flag and on some background put
them together according to the diagram until you have made the perfect
flag (see diagram). You will then notice the flag marked "I" has no
red stripes in it, and therefore is not perfect. It has six stripes
only; so in the making of a Christian if the blood has not been
applied and sins washed away, there can be no true Christian Life.

Figure 2.--No white stripes and only seven stripes in all. If there is
no white in the life, there is no Christian Life. It is short of the
standard of thirteen stripes. Only seven appear here.

Figure 3.--Red and white stripes appear, not thirteen but eleven. In
the making of a Christian there cannot be a perfect Christian with
some of the commandments left out. He that fails in one is guilty of
all.

Figure 4.--Here we see the field but the stars left out. This is not
the flag of the U.S.A. That man who calls himself a Christian without
the Star of Bethlehem is not a New Testament Christian.

Figure 5.--Here we have nothing but stripes--no blue field. This is
not the national banner of our country. It lacks the one thing--the
blue. In making of the Christian we must not lack one thing; if we do,
the life is rejected. "One thing thou lackest:" Such a life cannot
have the mark of a Christian.

Figure 6.--All stars and no stripes. This cannot be the National flag
of our people. The number of stars is correct, but the red and white
stripes are missing. In the making of a Christian if we lack the red
of the Blood, and the White of right living we cannot pass as the
Bible Christian in the Kingdom of Heaven.

Figure 7.--Here we note sixteen stripes and fifty stars. This would
also be rejected. Congress stipulates a banner of thirteen stripes and
forty-eight stars; that alone constitutes the lawful banner of
America. In the making of a Christian, we must not add to that life
what is not given in the law. No other doctrine can be mixed with
God's truth. Just God's word alone, nothing added from the worldly
philosophy or the worldly wisdom of man.

Figure 8.--This is the old Colonial flag. A wonderful flag of the
past, but not the mighty flag of today. So in the making of a
Christian, the past will not suffice. We must grow, in grace, and have
an experience up to date.

[Illustration: A variety of American flags labelled 1 through 10]

Figure 9.--This is the American flag with a foreign mark upon it. It
is not truly American. It would be rejected by the government of the
United States. So in the making of a Christian, all marks of another
government must be cast out. Jesus only. God and not mammon, must
obtain.

Figure 10.--Is the correct picture of the flag according to the laws
of the nation. So in the making of the Christian, we must be according
to the Pattern. We must do His commandments to bear His family name of
Christian. Thus we can learn from the making of the flag to make a
Christian.




                             =CHAPTER IX
                          THE HAND OF FAITH=

               _Objects: The Fingers of the Human Hand_

                          THE HAND OF FAITH

HERE is a lesson on the meaning of Faith. Hold up the hand, showing
the five fingers spread out and say, "Here is the hand of faith."
There are as many letters in the word "faith" as I have fingers on my
hand. Spell the word out commencing with the little finger and call it
"F." Little Faith sometimes it often proves, but our faith increases
as we travel on in the path of faith. The next finger stands for "A"
of faith. You notice it is larger than "F" so our faith increases as
we spell it out in experience and works. The next finger stands for
"I" a little larger still. The next finger is for "T" a little shorter
as sometimes our faith wanes; at last the thumb standing for "H,"
strong and confirmed in the way, so the fingers spell out the word
"faith." A _living_ faith--as the hand is a living organ of my body.
An _active_ faith, as each finger has its own individual action and a
_grasping_ faith, for the fingers were made to seize hold of things
and take them. So our faith must seize and hold on to God. The faith
that seizes the Cross--my fingers--another name for faith--seize it
and hold it. This is Salvation. Jesus says "take" of the water of
life. The hand of faith takes it, seizes it, and that makes it ours.
This is the faith that bringeth the victory. At last make your appeal
to them to take Salvation now. Ask them to hold up their hand, open
their fingers, and if their faith will take Jesus, to close their
fingers as if clasping something, and that something is Jesus. This is
taking Jesus by Faith.




                              =CHAPTER X
                           BEFORE OR AFTER=

        _Object: A Blackboard or a Drawing on a Muslin Chart_

                           BEFORE OR AFTER

PUT the figure of a cross on the blackboard and on the left side put
the letters B. C. On the right side, the letters A. D. This in the
language of the day stands for Before Christ and the Year of Our Lord.
For our purpose, we will cause B. C. to stand for Before Conversion
and A. D. After Deliverance. Before and after the Cross (See Figure).

[Illustration: A diagram of a cross with Before Conversion and After
Deliverance written on either side]

Great questions come to the Christian for his decision. "Shall I" are
the words often on our lips. Does it belong to the life before the
Cross (Before Conversion) or After Conversion? Put it down where it
belongs. "Shall I dance?" that belongs to the B. C. side of the Cross.
"Shall I play cards?" that belongs to the B. C. side also. "Shall I
pray?" that belongs to the A. D. side (After Deliverance) of the
Cross. "Shall I join the Church?" that belongs to the A. D. side also.
It would be a very helpful exercise to ask the audience to name daily
matters, and ask which side of the Cross they belong. If you have a
doubtful thing in your mind take it to the Cross and mark it B. C. or
A. D. This will make an instructive exercise for a young people's
meeting. Always be an A. D. Christian.




                             =CHAPTER XI
                     WHY I SHOULD JOIN THE CHURCH=

                    _Objects: Blackboard or Chart_

IT is the wrong thought of some Christians that they count just as
much for God outside of the church as in it. Christian membership
harnesses up the Christian to a giant power. Build out of cardboard
the form of a village church, place it on the platform before the
audience. If using blackboard draw the Church and numbers in the air
first. As they enter the Church rub the figures out, and place on the
roof. Hang up the numbers 1-2-0-4-9-6-7 in various parts of the
platform. They represent Christians who will not join the Church,
separate units, standing for themselves only. They have no relation to
each other and have only individual power. Persuade them to come into
the Church organization and be linked together by common tasks. Take
these numbers now in various parts of the platform and place them on
the roof in the following order: 9763210--now they are an army of
giants with power of millions of separate units. If the Church should
be made of wood, take seven candles and light them. Put them in
various places in the room. They represent the separate Christian.
Bring them to Church, Put them all inside of the Church. Turn out all
the other lights on the platform and the effect will be most striking.
Jesus said "Let your light so shine" and the way to make it shine the
most, is to all shine together. So will the Church be like a city set
on a hill. Its light cannot be hid.

[Illustration: A diagram of two churches, one with numbers around it,
one with numbers in it]




                             =CHAPTER XII
                          SEEING THE SERMON=

                    _Objects: The Perry Pictures_

                          SEEING THE SERMON

THIS is a striking and attractive way to preach a short object sermon
in the regular church service. Just before the regular sermon, ask all
the children to leave their seats and come forward to the platform in
a happy little group, then hand each a Perry picture all on the same
subject. Then preach to them a short sermon drawing out the point of
the picture, and explain every line of it to them. They will then
understand the picture and the lesson it teaches. After the little
sermon is over, tell them to keep the picture. And send them back to
their seats. It is a beautiful and affecting scene to see the little
people with happy step and smiling face coming down the aisle and
hastening back to their folks and saying "See what he gave me." They
are instructed to put these pictures in a scrap book to keep them
together. You can go through the Life of Jesus this way and the
children will thus have a valuable scrap book to keep for years to
come. Ask your denominational house where these pictures can be
secured. They cost but trifle, but they help you to cause the children
to see a sermon.




                             =CHAPTER XIII
                             THE BIG SIX=

                   _Objects: A Blackboard or Chart_

                   THE BIG SIX--A BLACKBOARD LESSON

THIS is a simple little diagram which can be drawn on a blackboard or
made over on a linen chart to be hung up on the wall for permanent
use. First make a large six like this [Illustration: large 6] then
toward the top place a smaller size six. Thus [Illustration: large 6
with 6 in a column to the left]. This means there are 66 books in the
Bible. Then add below the small 6 the figure 3, like this
[Illustration: large 6 with 6 and 3 in a column to the left]. This
teaches that there were 36 human authors who wrote the Bible. Last of
all add below this three the figure one like this [Illustration: large
6 with 6, 3, and 1 in a column to the left] which means that it took
sixteen centuries to write the Bible.

Let the children one by one, come to the front and with pointers
explain these figures. Let them repeat it in concert until they have
memorized the diagram.

In addition to that diagram, this one may be of service in remembering
the number of the books of the Old and New Testament. Write in large
letters the words OLD TESTAMENT. Count the letters in the Word OLD,
which are three. Put down the figure 3. Count the letters in TESTAMENT
and you will find the number to be nine. Put down the figure 9, after
the figure 3, and you will have the number 39 which is the number of
the books in the Old Testament. Write out the words NEW Testament;
count the letters in NEW. There are three. Count letters in TESTAMENT;
there are nine. After the figure 3 place the multiplication sign x,
then follow with the figure 9. Multiply 9x3 and you have 27, which is
the number of the books in the New Testament. Say to the children and
others if you ever forget the number of the books either in the Old or
New Testament, write the words Old Testament and New Testament. Count
the letters in each word and you will find the number you desire. For
the Old Testament put down the figures side by side. For the New
Testament multiply the first number by the last. Write this lesson on
the blackboard or draw on the chart the following diagram:

OLD TESTAMENT
3   9   =   39

NEW TESTAMENT
3  X  9  =  27




                             =CHAPTER XIV
                         HOW GOD SEES THINGS=

             _Objects: Two Small Cups Filled with Things_

                         HOW GOD SEES THINGS

THIS is a lesson on seeing things as God sees them. Man looks on the
outside, God looks on the inside. We look at the clothes and manners
of other people. God looks at the heart. God's way is the best. The
only way to see things as they really are, and all wise boys and girls
will try to see as God sees. In giving this lesson select the
brightest cups possible. Place them on a table by themselves and say
"Here are two cups." They look alike; they appear to be alike. Judging
from outward appearance, they are alike. That is the way man sees cups
and people, but God looks on the inside as well. This we should do
also if we wish to see as God sees. Here is a bright and beautiful
cup. Let us together see what it contains. The first cup contains
nothing but soiled, dirty, greasy rags. They are worthless. Mother
would burn them as they are good for nothing. Have the cup painted
black on the inside and as you hold up the cup so they can see the
inside you say "It is filled with night as black as evil deeds." Down
on the bottom of the cup place a small toy serpent which you produce
last and say the reason the inside of the cup of life is bad is
because down deep in the heart you will find sin and that makes the
whole heart bad. To illustrate the nature of sin write on a cardboard
the word sin like this S I N--say the first letter of sin resembles a
serpent. You cannot speak the letter S without hissing like a serpent.
The curves of the letter also resemble the serpent in the act of
striking. The serpent before it strikes must curl up and lift its head
high before it can give its fatal bite. So this teaches us the fact
that sin is active and ready to assault at all times. Note the second
letter I. That means sin is in you. I find sin is inside. Increase the
letter I like this S =I= N which means sin is growing in us all the
time as we grow older and older, it gets larger and larger. The only
way to get it out of our heart is to come to Jesus and ask Him by the
power of His cross to cleanse the inside of the cup and He will do it.

Pin strips of _red paper over_ the =I=, and you make the Cross. This
is the only power which will kill the serpent of sin and make clean
the inside of the cup of life. Then when God looks in He does not see
the evil of sin. That makes the cup all right. Now show the second cup
and say "Here is a cup, right outside, also right inside. Let us look
in as God does, and see what we find." First produce a small New
Testament. If you cannot secure one small enough for the cup, write on
small strips of paper short texts of scripture, and bring them out,
one by one, and read them. David says "Thy word have I hid in my
heart, that I might not sin against thee." That is the first big
reason why the cup is clean inside. Now produce from the cup a large
piece of white silk, or other thin fabric, and declare as you draw
this silk out, that "what comes forth from the heart is pure, and
white, and right." "Keep thy heart with all diligence for out of it
are the issues of life." Prov. 4:23. The issues are streams of good
works. If you so desire you can use white ribbon instead of silk. In
that case, cut the silk in small pieces and name each of them after
some good quality such as Help, Kindness, Love, Truth, etc. After this
produce a number of short blue ribbons which you can name Faithful,
Friendship. Blue standing for "true blue" meaning true friendship.
Have the ribbons tied together, meaning the pure heart and true heart
makes friends who are friends indeed. At last produce a small streamer
of red which stands for the cross. God looks inside of such a cup and
smiles and blesses it. Let us all try to see things as God sees them
and we will wear the smile that does not come off. To simplify this
lesson for use of very little eyes, you can use the following objects.
Secure a plain tin cup, and larger and more ornamented one, and place
them side by side. Say to the children "Which is the better cup? If I
should offer you one of the cups which would you choose?" They would
all declare the silver cup as their choice. Now show them that is not
the way God looks on things. We decide our choice by looking at the
outside. God looks on the inside also. Now show them the beautiful cup
is full of dirty water and the tin cup full of pure water. Which of
the cups is worth more to you when you are thirsty? They will all tell
you the tin cup is worth the most. Always look in before you decide.
That is the way God does. He sees the heart first. In arranging this
lesson, prepare the cups first. As you think it over, you will find it
easy to think up other things to make up the contents, but have them
all prepared before lesson time. Do not permit the children to look
into the cups before the lesson or the real point of the truth you
wish to teach them will be lost.




                             =CHAPTER XV
                         JOHN 3:16 IN COLORS=

     _Objects: A Number of Colors Arranged in Their Proper Order_

                         JOHN 3:16 IN COLORS

THIS lesson will help you fix the truth of John 3:16 as well as the
words of this golden text in the memory and heart of the little
audience for a life time.

This verse is called by Martin Luther "the gospel in a nutshell." By
this remark he meant that the truth of the Gospel was condensed into a
few words. These colors will help you nail down on the wall of memory
this condensed Gospel of John 3:16 so it will be the Gospel not only
in a nutshell but the Gospel in the heart and memory. Draw on a heavy
paper, a large heart at least sixteen inches high. Pin that up on a
blackboard or some back ground where all the class can see it well.
Now say you will try to put the little Gospel of John 3:16 in the
heart so it will stick there. Take a small strip of _gold_ paper or
golden yellow paper and place it on the bottom of the heart. _Gold_ is
the richest and best of all things so we will let it stand for God,
Who is the Best of all things. That strip stands for "GOD SO." Just
above that you place a strip of _red_ which stands for "LOVED." This
represents the "Love" of God. Next take a strip of _brown,_ the color
of the common earth, placing it above the red, which will stand for
the earth. This represents "THE WORLD." Above the brown place a
_white_ strip which represents "HIS ONLY BEGOTTEN SON." White stands
for the purity for God's son who had no sin in Him, also "The only
begotten son, as He was the only earthly being who had no sin."

Above the white place one long strip of four colors, and if possible
let the colors in the strip be of a different shade from those used in
the single strips. They are _red_ and _yellow, black,_ and _white.
These_ colors stand for "WHOSOEVER BELIEVETH."

Red for the red races, the Indian.
Yellow for yellow races--Chinese, etc.
Black for the black people.
White for the white people.

Other races have faces shaded from these principal colors. These
papers can be made of independent strips, going completely across the
heart, or of shorter colors joined together endwise.

A _black_ strip is now placed above this which stands for "PERISH."
Black suggests death, and the lost soul in eternal night. Add now a
_green_ strip. Green is the eternal color. The ivy and the pine trees
are always green. Let this strip stand for "EVERLASTING." And so the
heart is thus built up.

Now ask them to name the word for which each color stands, then put
the words together as in the Bible verse. On another chart write out
the verse in colors using the proper color for each word. FOR GOD
_(gold)_ SO LOVED _(red)_ THE WORLD _(brown)_ THAT HE GAVE HIS ONLY
BEGOTTEN SON _(white)_ THAT WHOSOEVER BELIEVETH _(yellow) (black)
(white) (red)_ SHOULD NEVER PERISH _(black)_ BUT HAVE EVERLASTING
_(green)_ LIFE, Tell them this is the Gospel of Christ in John 3:16 in
colors and this should be the Gospel in their hearts.




                             =CHAPTER XVI
                  THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO THE MAGNET=

     _Objects: A magnet and a quantity of tacks, needles and pins_

                  THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO THE MAGNET

ROBERT RAIKES, the founder of Sunday-schools in England, has left on
record only one of the many lessons he taught the children of his day.
It is beyond all doubt the oldest Sunday-school lesson ever recorded.
It is an object lesson in which he used a magnet. He said, "You know
what a magnet is, do you not? It is that strange kind of stone, or
magnetized piece of steel which attracts all iron to itself. Perhaps
you have seen boys and girls who had toy ducks and fishes drawn about
by a magnet in the water. Well, the magnet has a strange, unseen power
to draw some things to itself. Perhaps you have owned a little
horse-shoe magnet, and have amused yourself drawing needles and other
things to it. Now notice, I will place in this saucer a number of
needles and also a number of pins. Now you know pins are made of brass
while needles are made of steel or iron. You now notice that I take my
magnet and hold it just a little above the saucer. Now, see what
happens! The magnet attracts all the needles at once and they all fly
up and stick to it. But notice the pins. They do not move, as they are
made of brass, and there is nothing in them to be drawn by the magnet,
so they remained quietly behind, just as they were. Now listen, the
Lord Jesus is just like this magnet, and every one who belongs to Him,
everyone who has repented and believes in Him, is like these needles.
They have a nature now that loves the Lord Jesus, so when He comes He
will draw all those who belong to Him up to meet Him, but all other
people who have not been born again and have not had their natures
changed by Jesus, are like these pins. They do not rise up to greet
Him. There is nothing in their hearts to respond, so when He comes,
they will remain behind. How is it with you, dear children, are you
like the pins or needles?"

This was the lesson which Robert Raikes taught the children long ago.
You have already thought out how he did it and no further explanation
is needed. There are many lessons the magnet teaches which will fasten
gospel truth in their hearts to stay. You may fasten the base of the
magnet to a small wooden cross, and teach the lesson of the attractive
power by plunging the foot of the cross into a plate of tacks and note
how many tacks will cling to the cross. Call attention to the fact
that they not only cling to the magnet, but to each other. The power
of the magnet passes through the tack to other tacks and so on and you
have a crowd of tacks clinging to the cross. This teaches us the
fact--if we have the power of Christ in the heart, we will also draw
others to Jesus.




                             =CHAPTER XVII
                             THE STAR BOX=

   _Objects: A box marked with a star containing a cluster of common
                                things_

                             THE STAR BOX

IF this lesson is used simply as "The Star Box" you can use it any
time of the year as it is a lesson on the "Baby Days of Jesus." Secure
a fair sized box, a pasteboard box will answer if a wooden box is not
available. Cover it with sky blue paper to represent the night and on
the front of the box place a large golden paper star. Place this on a
table before the children and tell them our lesson this hour will be
from the Star Box and the baby days of Jesus. Open the box and produce
the following colors and objects.

1. The Bible. The coming of Jesus was foretold by the Old Testament
prophets. They longed to see His day, just as we now long to see the
second coming of Jesus. Here quote some of the Scriptures announcing
His first coming. These Scriptures were all like guiding stars to the
Old Testament people, which would some day lead them to the baby
Jesus. The New Testament says He has come and we believe it, for the
Wise Men said, "We have seen His star in the east and have come to
worship Him." If you desire you can make a scroll like the ancient
scriptures and bring this out of the box; this can be used in place of
the Bible book. A scroll is made like a roll of wall paper. Make it
about eighteen inches long, and have on it the references in the Old
Testament which declare His coming. When it is unrolled and you have
finished with it, pin the object, and all other objects you produce
from the box, somewhere up on the platform where all can see them, and
to which you can refer if you so desire a little later in the meeting.
Use glass push pins for this and all objects requiring to be pinned up
before the audience.

2. Next produce from the Star Box a piece of striped goods about one
foot square. This will represent the robe of the shepherds who long
ago were watching their sheep, Here teach the lesson of the dignity of
labor. God has given us work to do. The shepherds did theirs, and God
sent them a wonderful message as they worked. They attended to their
sheep. God talked to David, the Shepherd, once, and helped him to
sing, and we have the book of the Psalms, the church's oldest hymn
book, and many of these songs were given young David as he watched his
sheep. So the shepherds just watched and worked.

3. Now produce a field of stars. Some black muslin upon which a few
small stars are sewed. This represents _the night_ in which the
shepherds watched their flocks. The robbers and wild beasts did their
deadly work at night so the shepherds took their turn in watching by
night. Here learn a lesson of faithfulness when the hour is dark. So
the shepherds did not slumber and sleep by the comfortable fires, but
kept both eyes and ears open for the call of the wild beast or the
sudden visit of the robber, and as they watched there they heard a
joyful song.

4. Here produce a piece of _white silk or cloth_ which represents the
angel's song of "Peace on earth, good will toward man." The white silk
is an emblem of peace. So they heard the angel's song and its good
message of "peace on earth." It is a wonderful thought that God used
songs to first announce the glad tidings of the coming of the Son. It
is God's way yet--a message of song often finds the heart quicker than
a golden word. Learn to "sing for Jesus." Perhaps God may use you, as
he did the angels, to bring the message of heaven to some poor heart
on earth.

5. Now produce a piece of _yellow cloth_ or felt. This stands for the
yellow straw which the shepherds found in the manger when they went to
Bethlehem to see the things the angels said had come to pass. Here you
may produce, if you desire, a small handful of straw tied tightly
together, so it will hang up all right. This straw made the bed for
the humble Christ. We should not complain if we are spending our days
in humble quarters. Jesus thus spent His baby days.

6. Now produce from the box a piece of violet silk or cloth. This
stands for humility, which was displayed when the shepherds bent the
knee before the baby Jesus and worshipped Him. They knew He was as
poor as they were yet they knew God and knew Jesus was God's son, the
new-born King so they bowed the knee to Him. Some kings have been born
amid splendor, and placed in cradles, decked with gems, but they were
not kings. We only call them so. They were princes, they did not
become king till the death of the king, which in some cases was years
after their birth, and sometimes they died before the king did and so
they were never kings. Jesus was the only one born a King. The
shepherds knew this, and that made it all the more wonderful, so like
the little modest violet, they bowed their heads before the new-born
King. We should bow our hearts always to Jesus; that is, we should
have a _violet_ heart. We should be humble.

7. Here produce a star, sewed on a black background. This represents
the star seen by the Wise Men from the east, and when they had
followed it, they found it led them to the house where Mary and Joseph
were dwelling with Jesus. Some people think they know too much to be a
Christian. They say, "When I part with my brains, I will follow Him."
And these wise men and all other wise men do part with their brains
when they do _not_ follow Him for all really wise men have joined in
the procession which started a long time ago across the desert to find
Jesus. The greatest wisdom of the world is to follow Jesus. There are
five letters to the word Jesus, five points to the star, and the star
points spell "Jesus."

8. Now produce from the box three colors--yellow for gold, gray for
frankincense, purple for myrrh, all fastened together as if in a
cluster. The yellow for the gold they brought Him, for He had none of
His own. Gray for frankincense which represented or resembled gray
smoke when ascending in the sacrifice. These were gifts, the first
gifts Jesus ever received. The first Christmas gifts ever presented to
anyone in the world. There seems to be no record in Scripture of many
gifts ever being given Jesus when He was here among men. He, who was
all the time giving good gifts, received but few, if any, in return
from the children of men. He never owned a home. He slept for three
days in a borrowed grave. Let us learn from the Wise Men, a sweet
lesson of giving gifts. It pleases Him.

9. Now produce from the box, an _empty bag._ This represents the need
of the poor--the condition of many a poor soul. They have nothing of
their own. In the name of Jesus we bring gifts to them. If we do it in
His name it is accepted by Him as gifts to Him. Here put in the bag a
few small things if you desire representing the things they need and
say, "This is my Christmas present to Jesus."

10. Here produce from the box _a small heart._ This is my only
Christmas present I can give directly to Jesus. My heart He asks of
me. My heart I will give to Him. When we give our heart to another, we
mean that we give ourselves.

_"Here, Lord, I give myself away
Tis all that I can do."_

11. Now take from the box a Cross. This can be cut from pasteboard and
as you hold it up, fasten the heart to it. This means you will give
your heart to Him and make humble confession to the world of what you
have done by taking up your cross and following after Him. Salvation
is an affair of the heart. It is an affair of _the lips,_ and we must
openly proclaim him our Savior, for with the lips confession is made
of salvation received. Now ask the children to tell you the truth each
object represents.




                            =CHAPTER XVIII
                    HOW MAY LOST A BEAUTIFUL DOLL=

 _Objects: A small common china doll and a doll in a beautiful dress_

                    HOW MAY LOST A BEAUTIFUL DOLL

ONCE there lived a father in a little country town, far back from the
great city and its wonderful streets and shops, who said to his little
girl that it was his plan to go to the city after things, and that he
would take her with him if she cared to go. Of course she was full of
glee as she thought of the wonderful things she would see in the great
windows of the city shops. Her father had planned to purchase for her
a beautiful doll, but kept the thought to himself so it would be a
glad surprise to May. When they reached the city, May's eyes were open
wide, and like all little girls, she wanted lots of things at once. As
she and her father passed through the streets, May's eyes fell on a
large box on the outside of a toy shop filled with a large number of
cheap little dolls. They were made of celluloid, and cost only a few
pennies. (Secure one of the sort and show the class and say, "This is
a poor cheap doll, wears only painted clothes, will last only a few
days, and is very common as well as cheap.") Her father said, 'Wait,
dear little May, I will get you a doll by and by." But May would not
wait. She wanted that little painted doll now. Her father said, "I
promise you that you shall have a doll, dear, before we go home. Just
be patient and wait. Father knows best.'? At this denial May grew
angry and said, "You don't love me, father, or you would get me what I
wanted. I won't wait, | want this doll. I'm going to have it right
way." And as she said this, she took one out of the box, and held it
tight in her hand and said she intended to keep it. She stamped her
foot, and cried, and said, '"'I won't wait any longer, I won't give
this doll up. I will keep it and not put it back."

The father desiring to teach her a lesson, said, "Well, May, if you
know best and better than your father, who loves you, you may keep the
doll. I will pay for it. You need not wait for a doll any longer. It
belongs to you now." Now May thought on her ways and said, "I wish I
had not been so naughty about it. Dear father was good and kind to me,
and I was hateful to him." She was silent but thoughtful, when her
father stopped before a window of the toy shop, and there in the
window was a beautiful doll (borrow a beautiful doll for this lesson
and produce it). Her father said, "Look, little May, there in the
window is the doll I intended to purchase for you if you had waited
for me to get to this shop. I intended to surprise you. That was the
reason I did not tell you, but since you would not wait or trust your
father's word, I will not purchase it for you, but you must be
contented with the doll you have, the doll you said you would have and
so the doll you would not wait for will stay in the window. It cannot
be yours. My little May must learn that Father knows best and that it
will always pay to wait for father's time." It was a hard lesson for
May to learn but that day she said to herself, "Father knows best. I
will wait for his time, because it is the best time." This is how May
lost her beautiful doll. There is a lesson in this story for us all.
God has a plan for our lives. Wait for Him to work it out. If we seek
our own way our lives will be full of disappointments and sorrowful
failures. Wait for God's time. It is the best time. It will bring us
to the best of everything.




                             =CHAPTER XIX
                       THE PRODIGAL SON IN RAGS=

            _Objects: A collection of rags in many colors_

                       THE PRODIGAL SON IN RAGS

THIS is the story of the Prodigal son told in rags. Have a common rag
bag brought in, and its contents emptied on a table. This will make
quite a display of rags. Heap them up a little so the audience will
see them all. The ragman's bag is going to preach a sermon. Among
these rags is a bunch of rags fastened together with a pin to keep
them separated from the others, which you will not use in this lesson.
Take out the pin. Spread out these rags which you have thus kept
together and arrange them in their proper order. Now say, "I will tell
you the story of the Prodigal son as the ragman sees him. I will tell
the story of the _LOST SON IN RAGS._" Now put up a rope across the
back of the pulpit, or before the meeting have one put there, and from
the pile of rags place upon this line the following:

I--_A yellow cloth,_ a square piece of cloth as the Prodigal has not
yet come to rags. The yellow stands for the home he left,--the land of
plenty. Yellow stands for the rich grain fields, and is also the color
of the bread he found on his Father's table. Full and plenty and for
the fields, ripe for harvest. How often he had sung the harvester's
song in the field when working with his dear old father when they
lived together on the good old farm. Now from the rag table pick up

II--_A piece of red._ This should be cut in the shape of a heart. Red
stands for love and the heart of red for the loving heart of his
father. It should not be forgotten that the big point of this parable
is "The Loving Father," not the wayward son. It teaches how kind is
the great heart of the loving heavenly Father and how sweet is His
welcome to the wanderers who seek His face and favor. The son in rags
knew this and no matter how far he got away from God, he never got
away from the memory of the fond old father at home, yet he left it
all for rags. Now pick up

III--_A blue piece of cloth._ This stands for the dissatisfied heart
of the boy. He had "the blues." Tired of home; longed for excitement;
unhappy in his father's house. So he thought of the big town where he
thought he would be happy, and told his father so; he asked for his
share of the estate because he wanted money. He must have money to be
happy. So his father granted his request. Now pick up

IV--_Gray cloth._ The color gray was the color of the silver coins
which his father gave him. (Make this cloth crooked.) This was a
crooked step. He was crowning his own will. He was turning from the
wisdom of his father. That alone was crooked. The misuse of money is
often the first crooked step the youth takes. So often they leave home
for larger wages, not because of the privilege of saving, but the sin
of spending. After the estate is settled, the youth, with his new
inheritance, gets the crooked foot, forgets God and His counsels. In
one of our great high schools a prize essay was to be written. This
was the subject: "If you had ten thousands dollars, what would you do
with it?" In discussing this question, most of the boys had selfish
answers. One would spend a year in traveling, another would make
investments which yielded large returns quickly, etc. One lad said he
would give it to his parents to save for him. This boy won the prize;
he would never be a prodigal because of the misuse of money. The
Prodigal wanted it for self use, and he got a handful of rags in
return. Now pick up

V--_A gay rag of several colors,_ or a cluster of gray colored ones
(cut crooked). This represents the gaieties of the far off country
into which he had plunged. The sins of the far-away country seemed
tipped with gold; he fell for it at once. Satan whispered here is joy,
let loose; you are away from home; no one knows you; plunge in; and he
did. Here pick up from the table

VI--_Short pieces of gay ribbons tied together in various lengths._
This represents the kind of friends he had found. Some long, some
short, some were his for a few days, others for longer time; all tied
together, representing friendship. They were purchased friends. They
were his so long as his purse was long and full. When he had spent all
they all left him. No man gave to him, not even the friends to whom he
had given. Now he was poor, down and out and under. A man down in the
world,--a Prodigal son in rags.

VII--Now pick up _the gay cloth of colors in rags._ This represents
the Prodigal poor and forsaken, ragged and dejected. This is the
product of sinful companionship. This piece of rag should be the same
pattern as the one used representing his home garment but torn in
strips. A famine strikes the country. He is in need of bread. "The way
of the transgressor is hard," and the end thereof is harder still. He
has but one last resort. A tender of swine.

VIII--Here pick up _brown rag._ This represents the color of the brown
earth and the dried husks which he used as his only food. As a Jew,
this was bad business. It was the only business left. Satan drives us
to the bad. This is what happened to the Prodigal. Satan clothes us in
purple and fine linen, then tears it to shreds, and we cannot help
ourselves. Sin has a swift descent. There are no brakes for this
decline. Bad, worse, and then some more. That describes this man in
rags.

IX--Now pick up _yellow cloth._ This should be of the same shade as
used in the first story as he now thinks of the bread in the father's
house. Misfortune stirs up memory and we think; this is just what he
did. He thinks of home, of bread, of servants in the old house and
land of plenty. Sometimes we think of the better life too late. We
cannot retrace our steps and begin over again, but that God does: When
we repent and come to God, we may begin all over again.

X--Here pick up _purple cloth._ Make this a perfect square. This color
stands for repentance. It is the penitential color in the church
world. So he said, "I will arise and go to my Father, and say unto
him, 'I have sinned.'" This is the quick way home. It is a short cut
to God. The forgiving father is at the end of this road. So he goes
back in his rags. That is the way to go home. This is coming "Just as
I am, without one plea." Don't take off your rags. The Father alone
must do this and He will.

XI--Here pick up _red cloth._ This represents the long love of the
loving father. Red stands for love, a flaming love which causes the
father to run to meet him. This is the only time when God is said "to
run," and He does it every time when he sees the sinner coming.

XII--Here pick up _a striped cloth._ This represents the new robe just
like the first robe used when he went to the far country. He now looks
just like he looked when he left home. The past is all covered up with
Father's forgiveness, and when the neighbors come in, they don't see
rags but the garment beautiful. Perhaps they don't know of his
misfortune. They only know he was lost and found and lost so long to
the Father that they thought him dead, but he is alive again, and they
began to be merry.

XIII-Here pick up _green cloth._ This represents the jealous anger of
the elder brother who knows all about his downfall, and stayed outside
and grumbled about the past sins of his brother, and the fact that
never was a fatted calf slain for him that he might make merry with
his friends also. His Father pleads with him, and since we hear
nothing about this elder brother again, we would conclude that he went
in and joined in the festivities of his brother's return. The Father's
love had conquered both of his sons.

XIV--Here take _red cloth,_ and cover the green with it for the
Father's love (red) had conquered the jealousy (green) of his son's
heart.34

XV--Here pick up _white cloth_--the white stands for peace, which was
now in the dear old home. Peace which we believe was also in the elder
brother's heart. Peace which we know was in the Father's heart, and in
the heart of the Prodigal, who had exchanged his rags for the glad
robe of eternal salvation. As they all hang upon the line, remember
the lesson, and ask the class to tell you what each rag stands for.
You can, if you so desire, in place of hanging them on a line, place
them on the furniture of the pulpit. The matter of using cloth, muslin
or silk or any other substance, is left to the convenience and
judgment of the teacher. Even colored papers can be used in place of
the rags. In that case name the lesson "The Prodigal Son in Scraps of
Paper." Place these scraps in a waste basket and from that place of
cast-off things, produce them as you desire.




                             =CHAPTER XX
                     WHAT CAN TAKE AWAY MY SINS?=

_Objects used: Large transparent jar of clear water; a small quantity
of oxalic acid; some powdered ox gall; a quantity of tincture of iron;
a small cluster of flowers; a few coins; a dictionary, It is a lesson
                        with chemical effects._

                     WHAT CAN TAKE AWAY MY SINS?

                           _A Chemical Talk_

PLACE on the table a large jar of plain untinted glass; fill it
two-thirds full of water and before the class assembles drop in a few
drops of tincture of iron. This receptacle we will call the Human
Heart. Secure a two-ounce bottle, paint it red, in which you place a
strong solution of oxalic acid. You cannot get this solution too
strong. This represents the Blood. Secure a third bottle and paint it
black. In this place some powdered nut galls. This represents Sin. On
the table have,--a silver coin, a music box, a cup of pure water.
These you will use in the body of the lesson later. Announce that you
will choose a text for your talk this time and it will be found in I
John 1:17. "The blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanseth us from all
sin." Call attention to the large jar which represents the Human
Heart. To all appearance it looks as pure as a lily. There seems to be
nothing in it to make it evil. It does not look like evil. So it often
happens that the evil in us, does not always show on the surface, but
is hidden away in our heart. It was born in us. All men are not _born_
sinners, but _born_ in sin, and later on, that sin manifests itself,
and we begin to choose evil in preference to the right, and that makes
us sinners. The seed of sin was hidden deep in the heart. The jar
apparently pure has in it a hidden property no eye can see, but it is
there and when evil gets in it finds a response from that hidden power
and at once the apparently pure water has turned black with sin. I now
pour a few drops from the black bottle, the evil bottle, into the jar.
Even these few drops seem to be clear and white also, but when I drop
them into the jar of water, all is blackened because the apparent
cleanness was only on the surface. "There is a way that seemeth right
in the eyes of men, but the ways thereof are the ways of death." You
can now talk about things which men do which they say are not bad.
They look all right, that is true, but when they enter the soul, they
soil it, and sin is supreme. What shall I do to get rid of my sin?
What can take away my sin? Can I purchase my salvation? Let us see.
Now cast in the jar a number of silver coins, and say these will bring
me the white again, but the blackness is yet there, showing that
salvation cannot be bought with silver or gold. Can education or
refinement take away sin? Let us see. Place over the top of the jar a
number of school books to represent education. Of course you see the
water is yet black, because you cannot make a black heart clean by
learning. Will music take away my black sin? Let us see. Place a music
box on top of the jar, and let the music sound forth, but you note the
heart is still black and will remain black notwithstanding the finest
music of the world. Shall I say the power of the mind can take the
blackness away? Let us see. I will say to myself "There is no
blackness in this jar. It is a mental delusion. I am mistaken. I don't
see black, and if I continue so to do long enough the black will
disappear to the eye for it was never there. It was a mental defect to
say it was there." All of this sort of thinking would never change the
contents of the jar. Can beauty take away the black? Let us see. Cast
in now a few flowers. The most beautiful things God has made. Will the
handful of beauty take the blackness away? This beauty can never do.
What will do it? What is the soul's cry? What can take away my sins?
Here produce the red bottle. "The blood of Jesus Christ, his son,
cleanseth us from all sin." Pour a few drops or more from the red
bottle into the jar. Continue to pour it in until the water is made
white again. Behold! the blackness of despair has disappeared. The
Blood has taken away the sin forever. Before you put the drops of
black into the jar, take out a small glass full of the black water and
place it down on the table and after the water has been cleared up say
"When the blood of Christ takes away our sin, He keeps us when tempted
to go black again." To illustrate that truth, pick up the small glass
of black water, and say "This represents temptation, and it seeks to
get back into the soul again and make it black with sin as before."
Pour the contents into the jar but you notice that at once there is a
power in the purified water in the jar to resist all temptation and
the black does not blacken the water again. The effect of the
illustration will be made more striking if you put two or more lighted
candles back of the jar. By rehearsal in private, work out the
necessary proportions of these chemicals so they will work out
correctly when you use them before your audience. Be very careful and
keep these chemicals away from the reach of the children as some of
them are deadly poisons.




                             =CHAPTER XXI
                         THE GOSPEL COPY BOOK=

_Objects used: A small blackboard; a small New Testament; a number of
                 children to write on the blackboard_

                         THE GOSPEL COPY BOOK

THIS is a lesson showing how important it is to copy Christ, not
Christians. Many go astray in their life and conduct because they do
not follow the copy. There is a gospel copy book. Christ is that book.
Follow His words and your life will not be crooked, and what you do
and say will cause people who watch you to say "He is following the
copy. He has studied well his lesson in the Gospel Copybook." Write
the word "Christian" in large letters at the top of the blackboard and
ask a tall boy to copy it as exactly as possible. After this is done,
cover up the original line, and ask another boy to copy the copy. Keep
covering up all but the last line, having various ones to copy till
six or seven have been made. Now take off the covers and compare them
with the original. You will note every copy is different from each
other and all different from the original, because each child looked
at some one else's writing and not at the original. We are apt to copy
each other's mistakes and example. This we do when we look at
Christians, and try to do as they do instead of taking Christ as our
example.

One morning a business man who lived in the suburbs was hastening to
catch the train, which he supposed was almost due. It was important
that he should go to town, but, as he was walking along in nervous
haste, he saw a gentleman ahead of him, walking with deliberation and
ease. They always took the same train, so he watched him and not his
watch. But to his great dismay, he saw the train come in and go out,
and they both were left. The watch of the man he followed was five
minutes slow. He learned his lesson--follow no man--watch the watch
and the schedule, and go straight ahead. Run yourself on railroad
time. That is good business sense for the traveler. Jesus has given us
a gospel copy book. Here it is. It is the New Testament. Follow its
teachings and your life will be straight, and you will be like Jesus.
Follow Christ and not Christians." Be not content in saying "I am as
good as most Christians." You are not asked to be as good as even the
best Christians, but to be like Jesus.




                             =CHAPTER XXII
                            IN HIS KEEPING=

   _Objects used: A nest of boxes; teaching the truth of the Divine
                               Security_

                            IN HIS KEEPING

THIS is a lesson based on the text John 10:28: "They shall never
perish." They shall never perish because they are in His keeping. Oh
how safe are those who trust Him in the hollow of His hand, for "they
shall never perish."

This is an object lesson teaching the divine "security of the
Believer." Produce a fair sized cardboard heart on which write your
name. This is the way of announcing your salvation. Religion is an
affair of the heart. It goes to the heart, changes the heart, keeps
the heart. An old whaler once said he'd been in the business for so
many years he could talk about nothing else save whales and said "When
I am dead, if you should open my heart, I think you would find the
word 'whale' in its centre." His business was an affair of his heart.
I am sure that deep in the believer's heart you would find the name
'Jesus' written, because religion is an affair of the heart to every
true believer.

To put this lesson over in a large way, secure a number of boxes each
just a little larger than the other so they will nest well. On the
first box, print a large cross as large as the side of the box will
permit. Now drop the heart into that box and close the lid tightly.
The heart is now hid in the Cross, and is safe forever. Your money you
may lose, a thief may make way with it. It may take wings and fly away
out of your sure keeping place, but when you give your heart over to
the keeping of the Cross, you are safe forevermore. The word says
"They shall never perish" because they are in His keeping. Now take a
slightly larger box marked "His care." Place the box marked with a
cross inside of this box and close the lid. Now I am doubly safe, for
I am in Christ, and also in God's care. God cares for the sparrow, for
the Word says, "Not a sparrow falleth to the ground without your
Heavenly Father." Not alone that He sees and counts the fallen bird,
but that He comes down with it. God attends the funeral of even a
fallen sparrow. If He so cares for a bird, will He not care more for
me! And He does and so I am safe in His care.

Take the next larger box and mark it "His Love," and in this box place
the one marked "His Care." Every believer tents in the love land of
the heart of God. "He so loved that we might not perish." And so we
are safe in His love. No man dare tamper with the love marked children
of His. Even Satan is afraid of that power. Put this box into the
larger box marked "His Power." Another wall has been built around the
believer. It is God's great wall of power. Now the Love box believer
is surrounded by God's power. Christ said "All power is given unto
me." And it wraps the believer up in this girdle of strength for the
Gospel in the heart is "the power of God unto Salvation." In I Peter
1:15 we are told we are "kept by the power of God." The hand that
holds the sea in the hollow thereof holds me in safety. His power is
my fortress. I can smile at all foes. I am safe in the hollow of His
hand of power. Now place this box in the next larger size box, have it
marked 'His Promise.' He has given me His promises "I will never leave
thee nor forsake thee." (Hebrews 15:5.) He whispered those dear words
to me when he lifted me from the cross of penitence and gave me the
kiss of salvation. He is able to keep His promises and | am trusting
in His word. He has said that "He that begun a good work in you shall
perform it until that day." The day of His coming. I will trust that
promise, and tremble not, nor fear what man can do unto me. "As the
mountains are around about Jerusalem, so is the Lord round about them
that fear Him. As the sides of this Promise box are around about me,
so are the mountains of His power. I am closed in by tons of
mountains, a congress of giants, so Salvation is God's safety box. It
shuts the soul in His Cross, His Care, His Love, His Power, His
Promises. No wonder it is written "They shall _never_ perish." Marvel
not it is written "No man shall pluck them out of my hand." When Noah
and his wife, and his three sons, and their wives went into the Ark,
God shut them in, and they were safe. When God shuts the door He shuts
the soul in. No man can open. God holds the key. It is a secret
combination lock. God knows the combination. No man can know it. It is
a secret God will not whisper to any one in all the world. Closed
in--locked in--that is enough, my soul, to live by and keep me
divinely calm, now, and in the hour of death. "In His keeping" is
Heaven's way of writing the word salvation.

If the box method is too elaborate, to work out, you can use a nest of
envelopes. They put the lesson over just the same.




                            =CHAPTER XXIII
                        A CANDLE LIGHT LESSON=

                _Objects used: A collection of candles_

                        A CANDLE LIGHT LESSON

THIS is a simple yet shining lesson, using a small collection of
ordinary candles as illustrators. Children's and older eyes are always
attracted by sparkling lights. Watching the glittering stars is always
a delight. These candles talk: They are white robed prophets. They
preach to you. Look and listen. Have the candles mentioned in this
chapter hidden from sight, with the exception of one tall candle which
you have placed in the centre of the table. This represents The Light
of the World. Have this burning when the audience enters. It will have
an attractive effect. Produce the other candles as you introduce them.
Say of this first tall candle that Jesus said of Himself "As long as I
am in the world, I am the light of the world." (John 9:5.) This is the
text which this candle is declaring by its light--Jesus--the Light of
the World. Without this light the world would be in darkness. At this
moment, cause all the lights of the church to go out for a moment and
say "If this candle should now be extinguished there would be complete
darkness in this room. Just so would it be if the Light of the
World--Jesus--should turn His face from the world, all would be in
darkness indeed." Cause the lights of the church now to be turned on
and proceed with your shining talk. Next produce a small spirit lamp.
Let this represent the Holy Spirit. Light it from the Light of the
World candle, and say "The Holy Spirit takes the light of Jesus, and
scatters it among men. He represents Jesus. He was sent to continue
Christ's work of sending forth the light of truth." Now tell of the
ascension of Jesus, and as you do, take away the big candle and put it
in another room if possible and say "Jesus has now gone to shine in
the Glory, but has left the Holy Spirit here to continue His shining
work. Now bring in twelve candles, standing for the twelve disciples.
Light each one from the spirit lamp and say "The disciples have been
sent to carry the light to the uttermost parts of the world, go ye
into all the world," etc. From a corner of the platform produce
candles standing for the races of the world. They are now in darkness,
"Go ye into all the world" and then quote the last five words of
Matthew 5:14. "The Light of the World." Name each candle one of these
words, so the candles will read "The Light of the World." Jesus said
these words about His followers, and all the races are His followers.
This illustration shows how the Holy Spirit can cause Jesus to shine
forth through the nations of the world. If you wish to make an
elaborate finish to this lesson, call up five boys to represent the
nations mentioned. Let them carry a flag of each nation or marked in
such a way that they may be known as a representative of the nation
whose name they bear, and let them go to different parts of the church
bearing these candles. One may go to the gallery and call that spot
Africa; another to the rear, and call that locality India, etc. And
when they have been distributed, turn off all the lights for a moment
and say "The Holy Spirit is world wide in His mission. The light is
just beginning to shine. Pray that the Holy Spirit may continue in the
work of light-sending and He will do so if we do our part, and we
will." Let the lights be now turned on, and the people sing as a
closing hymn "The Morning Light is Breaking."




                            =CHAPTER XXIV
                      THOSE TEN FRIENDS OF MINE=

                    _Objects: Using the Human Hand_

                      THOSE TEN FRIENDS OF MINE

NO one can truthfully say "I have no friends." If you do say those
words, you are mistaken, because I know your friends so well, I can
shut my eyes and count ten of them without stopping, because all boys
and girls have ten good and helpful friends. These ten friends are
never failing friends. They say to you "I'll stand by you, and perhaps
I can make you rich and great some day." We must all depend on these
ten friends, and they will never fail us. Now hold up both hands, open
wide the fingers and say "These are your ten friends. They are your
ten friends, and they are your ten best friends. They are ten obedient
friends. They always do just what you tell them to do. They are never
disobedient. They never refuse to work for you. They never go on a
strike." A little boy selling newspapers on the streets of London,
overheard a kind lady make the remark, as she looked at him, "Poor
boy! how sad and lonely that poor little boy looks." He replied to the
remark, by saying "I am not a bit lonely, good lady, because I always
have lots of company, as I have these ten friends of mine ever with
me." And as he spoke, he held up both his little hands. He was right.
He was not lonely, because he had his ten faithful friends ever with
him. Having these little working friends we should always work with
them. Many a little boy has worked himself up the ladder of success by
the aid of these ten friends. Give them something useful to do every
day. They will do it for you and some day your friends may make the
world watch you and your company of ten, doing things. The Bible says
that "Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might." That
is what the Bible says about your ten friends. When our ten friends
all cuddle up together, as if hugging each other, then we have a
strong weapon to defend us, then we can strike with the strength of
the arm. These ten friends helped the boy David, as they clinched the
cords of the sling, and brought the giant down. They go to war for us,
and every last one of them fights bravely. An old college chum of mine
was helped through school by these ten friends who worked hard for
him. These friends paid his way through school, for he worked his way
through by the labor of his hand. Sometimes the errand boy of the
store has been helped so well by these ten friends that they helped
him to a place in the firm, and he became part owner of the store.
Sometimes these ten friends are bad little friends, they strike little
sister, they steal things from shops, sometimes they lift strong drink
to our lips and do lots of evil things but we must always remember
they are only doing what we tell them to do. We are responsible for
all the evil they do, for they only do as they are told. We should
train them only to do well, and then they will only do well. There was
a little boy in the great city of Philadelphia, that never knew the
name of his father and mother, who was one day left on the doorstep of
a stranger. The good lady who lived in the house, had pity upon the
little stranger and took him in. They called him "George Washington,"
for they found him on Washington's birthday, and they called him
"Child" for his last name. So his full name the good lady gave him was
"George Washington Child." He and his ten friends sold papers on the
streets of Philadelphia. His ten friends worked so hard and well that
afterward he became the owner of the great _Public Ledger_ of
Philadelphia. Thus we see how much a poor boy and his ten friends can
do when they all work together and for each other. These ten friends
can work for God also. They can give a cup of cold water to the
thirsty, and Jesus says it is giving unto Him. These ten friends can
lead other little boys and girls to the church where they can hear
about Jesus and be saved. Hold up the left hand and give the fingers a
letter. Call the little finger "W," the next "O," and the next "R,"
and the following fingers "K" and "S"--"WORKS" is the name of the left
hand. Now hold up the right hand and spell out the word "F.A.I.T.H."
"FAITH" is the name of the right hand fingers, so working with both
hands, these five friends called "WORKS" and these five called "FAITH"
we can do wonders. Faith and Works can conquer the world. So our ten
friends are an army of conquerors.




                             =CHAPTER XXV
                   HEAVENLY MAIL FOR THE DISCIPLES=

                   _Objects: 12 Prepared Envelopes_

                   HEAVENLY MAIL FOR THE DISCIPLES

THIS is a fine test for the memory which can be used for older
children and adults. It will require some study before it can be used
effectively.

Secure twelve large envelopes and enclose in each a beautiful
scripture and floral card. Say you are about to distribute in the mail
twelve letters for the Disciples. You will not call out the names.
Now, ask twelve children, or adults, to come forward and say I have
here twelve letters for the Disciples. I will not read their names,
but will describe them. If you recognize them by the description I
give, you are to speak the name and I will give you the letter to be
delivered to them. If you cannot find the disciple whose name you
pronounced, then you are to keep the letter and its contents as yours.
Ask the first one in the row the first question: if he fails to
answer, ask him to take his seat. If he answers it let him stand there
in his place, but don't ask him again unless all the others have
failed. The question about the second letter to the second individual,
and so on, for the letters. Holding up the first letter you say "I
have here a letter for one of the Disciples (on the envelope you have
the description of the Disciple written) who was believed to be the
oldest of them all. He once tried to walk on the water, wrote two
epistles which bear his name, dined his Lord three times. What was his
name? (Peter.)

After this question is disposed of, ask the next question. "I now hold
in my hand a letter for the Disciple who first brought another to
Jesus" (Andrew.) "I hold in my hand a letter for the Disciple who was
called the "Son of Thunder" the first martyr--who was he? (James.) "I
have a letter for the Disciple who took Mary away from the crowd on
Calvary, to his own home. Wrote five books of the New Testament and
was especially dear to Jesus. Who was he? (John.) "I have a letter for
the Disciple who brought the second Disciple to Jesus, Can you name
him?" (Philip.) "I hold in my hand a letter for the Disciple who was
an Israelite indeed and was also called Bartholomew. What was his
other name?" (Nathaniel.) "I have a letter for one who was a doubter.
What was his name?" (Thomas.) "I have one for the Disciple who was a
collector of taxes and wrote one of the Gospels. Can you name him?"
(Matthew.) "I hold in my hand a letter for a Disciple who was perhaps
the brother of Matthew, and the son of Alphaeus. Can you speak his
name?" (James, the son of Alphaeus.) "I have a letter for the Disciple
who had three names whose father's name was James. What were his
names?" (Judas Thaddeus Lebbaeus.) "I have one for a Disciple who
belongs to the zealots. What was his name?" (Simon of Cana.) "I have a
letter for the Disciple who committed suicide and betrayed his Lord.
Who was he?" (Judas.)

This is a good scripture exercise and can be used in the number of
ways. If you so desire you may fasten their envelopes on some
background in full view of the audience and ask the questions a week
ahead of time, so they might have time to look up the questions and
come prepared to answer them. It is a good drill for children which
will enable them to learn the names of the Disciples and something
about each of them. Study it out well, and then try it out.




                            =CHAPTER XXVI
                   THERE'S A MESSAGE IN THE CANDLE=

  _Objects used: A Large Candle, standing for the story of Joseph and
                            His Brethren_

                   THERE'S A MESSAGE IN THE CANDLE

ONE day a candle spoke out from a shelf in a minister's study and said
"I see you watching me and with your eyes you seem to say--what shall
I say next to the Juniors. Listen to me and I will answer your
question." And the Candle said "Well now, Mr. Preacher-man, I will
take your place next Sunday and preach for you. I have a message
hidden away for your people." Then I though as I watched the candle
that a hidden hand, holding a lighted taper thrust itself out from the
mystic land, and glowed and throbbed as a little star of light which
crowned its upright form. Then said I "Now, Mr. Candle, what will you
tell the people?" and it said "Hold me above your head and thus exalt
me, or debase me by putting me on the floor, I will still keep on
shining. In whatsoever state I am, I shine just the same. Men may
honor me by placing me on the King's table before the lords and
ladies, or place me in a humble cottage window, to help the pilgrim of
the night to see his way onward, I will still shine. I was made to
shine. It is God's will that I shine--just shine." Learn, ye people,
the lesson. It is a message from the candle. This is true goodness.
This is pure Christianity. This is Jesus' way--no matter where--just
shine." "That is beautiful, good prophet," said I, as I drew out a
golden dart from my own heart. "That arrow of light pierced me."
"But," said the candle, "Do you know my true name? Well, I will tell
you. My name is Joseph. I was shining long ago when the race was just
tumbling over the side of the cradle of infancy. I was there and did
what I ask you to do. When I was in Father Jacob's home, or in the
field tending sheep, or carrying messages to my brother shepherds, or
when I was hated by my home folks, or cast into the pit with creeping
things and devouring mouths, or sold into Egypt as a slave, or robed
in grandeur as a mighty ruler with Pharaoh, or when I was covered with
the poisonous lies, or cast down into prison, or when I stood before
Pharaoh, and made clear his dreams, or when I was exalted to Pharaoh's
side, and lived in untold glory, or when I met my brethren who sold me
into slavery, and with whom I could even up the old score and sore, or
when I stood face to face with my dear old father in Egypt land, and
found myself and the boys and home folks all united under the royal
canopy of Pharaoh's care, I just kept on shining all the time. Up or
down, in or out, over or under--just shining all the time. Go thou and
do likewise." Then I saw the mystic hand come out from dreamland, and
remove the white robed priest, and I heard him exclaim as he was
removed out of sight--"Here endeth the sermon of the white candle."
When at last my thought spoke out, I said, "God was with the white
minister and his message was like an echo of the sermon on the mount."
To visualize the lesson, place a plain candle on the table, and be
seated a little distance from it. Secure a good reader, who will not
be in sight, to speak the part the candle says, and you in turn make
the answer. Make it a dialogue with the object.




                            =CHAPTER XXVII
                       THE LONG AND SHORT OF IT=

         _Objects used: A Tall Candle and a Stub of a Candle_

                      THE LONG AND SHORT O' LIFE

THIS is a lesson which illustrates how important it is to give God our
whole life. Samuel did this. He did not wait until his life was almost
burned out, and then give to God the stump which was left, but gave
God the whole life, from early childhood to ripe old age.

Secure one full length candle, and also one almost burned out. If both
are lit at the same time, the short one quickly burns away while the
tall one burns for a long time. "The tall candle stands for youth, and
where youth is given over to God, it sheds light for many happy days.
We should all offer our whole life to God and not wait till it is
almost gone and then offer a few short feeble days to Him. Don't wait
until life is almost burned out and only a little stub left like this
to offer God." As you say these words, hold up the little stump of
candle. "Here is a candle almost burnt out. It will not give light
much longer." In the old fashioned days when candle light was used it
would be cast aside as good for nothing, and yet the little stump can
do a little good for Jesus. Come to Him before it is burnt out
altogether. Come now, tomorrow darkness may come and the little candle
be entirely consumed.

One evening some years ago, when I was preaching in my Philadelphia
church, a sermon called "A Sermon of a Hundred Candles" I lifted up a
little stub of a candle almost burned out, and said "This resembles
the sinner almost burned out, only a few minutes more and it will be
gone. Turn to God quickly before time will snuff out your flickering
taper." In that audience that night sat a man well known in river
circles. He was known as Capt. Evans, a man that knew the Delaware
River like a book. Many efforts had been made to bring him to Jesus,
but everything up to this point had failed. He said "That little stub
of a candle got me." And it brought him to Jesus, and for the rest of
his days was a shining light for the Master. Oh, ye little stubs. Turn
to Jesus and shine. You cannot go back to the happy days of youth to
begin over again but begin to shine now for Jesus. Hearken, ye youth,
boys and girls, of the order of the long candle. Come now to Jesus and
shine from the days of your youth until God bids you come up higher
and shine for Him in the White City of God.

To elaborate this lesson let a number of boys and girls come to the
platform, each bringing an unlit candle which they light from the tall
candle on the table called "The Light of the World." And then let them
place them back on the table until they are all lit. Don't let them
hold them in their hands in a lighted condition as there is danger in
this. Ask them to stand around the table while the lights are burning
and sing "Jesus bids us shine."




                            =CHAPTER XXVIII
                      PULLING OUT THE NAIL HOLES=

        _Objects: A Small Size Post or Board. Hammer and Nails_

                      PULLING OUT THE NAIL HOLES

HERE is a story so old that it is new. That is, it is new to this
generation. It is about a post that may be a pulpit or a lesson desk,
and from it they may hear a loud message proclaimed. This is the
story.--Many years ago when Grandpa was young, just like you, his
mother told him a story about a boy that did wrong things, told
falsehoods, and used bad words. His mother, in order to cause him to
see how ugly sin was, and what a bad scar it left in the heart, drove
a nail into a post for every evil word he spoke. By and by there were
a large number of nails in the post and it looked very ugly and he
felt just a little ashamed of his deeds being shown up this way. So he
went to his mother and said he was very sorry, and promised he would
try not to say bad words any more if she would pull all the nails out.
This she agreed to do on the following terms: For every good word or
deed, he would say or do, she would pull out one nail. After trying
real hard he saw the nails come out one by one, at last they were all
out, but he noticed the holes left by the nails, and wanted his mother
to pull them out also, which, of course she could not do. This taught
the boy a lesson, that even good deeds could not erase the scars evil
deeds left behind them. His father said, however, if he continued to
be good, he would fill all the holes up with a paint filler, and
recoat the post with fresh paint, and it would like quite like new,
and right again. After his father had given the post a number of coats
of fresh paint, the scars all disappeared, and the little boy never
forgot the lesson when he looked at the bright, fresh post.

Now, secure a fair sized post or board. Have it nicely planed and
painted, if possible, polished, so it will present a finished
appearance. Take now a hammer and nail and drive one in, at short
distances, at every evil deed mentioned. He told a lie--drive in a
nail. He said a swear word--drive in a nail. He stole a book--drive in
a nail, and so continue this operation until there are fifteen or
twenty nails driven in. "How shall I get rid of my sins?" Let us see.
For every good word said, pull out a nail and continue in this fashion
until the nails are extracted. But good works will not blot out our
evil deeds, for you notice that the nail holes are there. We cannot
pull the nail holes out, the scar of sin is left, The only way the
scar can be blotted out is by the planing off of the board, or filling
up the nail holes, or better still, get a new piece of board. So God
must give us a new heart, and this He will do if we pray "Create in me
a new heart, O God."




                             =CHAPTER XXIX
                          "THE BURIED BIBLE"=

_Objects: A Large Bible; a Daily Newspaper; a Sunday Newspaper; a Cash
  Book; Entertainment Program; a Theatrical Window Poster; a Book of
 Fashions; a Book of Personal Engagements; a Popular Work of Fiction;
                 School Books; a Phonograph Catalogue_

                           THE BURIED BIBLE

IN the Old Testament days we read of the Scriptures or "The Law" being
hidden away under the rubbish of the neglected temple. There is great
danger in these days that we might lose our Bible in this way also. We
so easily and frequently put it aside, neglect it, and then forget it
and often forget where we put it. The cares of this world and its
sinful pleasures are the dust which so often covers our Bible, and
which covers it over to such an extent that we find it is not even in
our thoughts.

In many of our homes, the Bible is out of sight. The children do not
find it open and ever before their eyes. It is a buried book. There
should be a Bible in every room, always kept open, which will speak in
a silent tongue of power "Search me, and in so doing you will find
eternal life." To illustrate the fact that in most homes this is not
done, and that the Bible has been covered with the rubbish of life,
secure a good sized Bible, and before the children assemble, cover it
all over so it is entirely out of sight with, first, a Sunday
newspaper, next, a cash book used in business, next an entertainment
program, then a theatrical window poster folded up, then a fashion
plate picture, after this a book containing your engagements for every
night, and late night affairs; also a popular work of fiction, a pile
of school books; a well worn catalogue of Victor records, and at last
a daily newspaper. When the audience is assembled, explain you will
talk to them about the neglected book of God or the buried Bible. Let
us all look and see what we use to cover up our Bible, and thus put it
out of sight. This pile of stuff on the table covers up the dear word
of God, and prevents us from reading it as we should. The Bible is the
world's greatest medicine chest, and it is lost. The world is in
dreadful pain and we cannot find the medicine. Let us see together
what has covered it up, and search together under the rubbish until we
find it.

First lift off the daily newspaper. This is always read first by most
people, and when we have finished reading it, there is no time to read
the Bible, and we are not in a good mental state to grasp its meaning,
so we neglect to read our Bible. We should go to the Holy Book first,
if only to find one verse for the day, for in so doing, we begin the
day with God. But the daily newspaper has hid it out of sight. Next
take up the Victor talking machine catalogue, which should be much
worn by frequent use, and in so doing explain that one-half the time
listening to God speak through His word, as we give to the popular
song and music of the day, our Bibles would be in as prominent a place
as the talking machine. Popular music is good in its place but when it
takes the Bible's place, it is all wrong and out of its place. Don't
hide the Bible back of the talking machine, or you will lose it some
day.

Next, take off the _School books._ "No time to read the Bible, | have
so many lessons to study." This is often the cry we hear from boys who
attend school. Sometimes the school books are enemies to the word of
God and destroy all taste for the Bible. Often when the boys and girls
have finished their book learning, they have not only no time for the
Bible but no use for it at all. They cast it into the rubbish and say
"The world has outgrown the Bible." So under the books of the school,
they have buried it and called it dead and that is the reason they
buried it. Bright boys and girls should know the Bible is the king of
all books of learning, and the highest crowning wisdom of all is to
know God, that alone is the _perfect education._ Don't therefore, hide
your Bible under your school books. Now pick from the rubbish
heap--the novel. "I am so interested in reading fiction I have no time
to read the Bible." This is just what the boys and girls often say.
They will sit up all night if possible to see how the story "turns
out." Of course there is no time to read the Bible if this is the way
we spend our reading time and so the Bible once more is pushed aside
by the novel. Reading is a splendid means of mental culture, and it
makes a full man, but the best reading of all is the Bible. Mix a
chapter of the good Book in with your other reading, and you have a
superb mixture. The Bible contains the world's best literature, and it
is more than good literature. Its words are life and concentrated
power. They are bits of radium. They glow with inside light, they
never lose their lustre. Their light is as penetrating as the X-ray.
They shine into the other life. Don't hide the light of the mighty
word with the novel or secular reading of the present day.

Now take from the pile of stuff your book of engagements. Open it, and
discover you have an engagement for every night in the week. They are
social functions. You must go; you will lose your standing among the
"high class" if you don't. Put down among your engagements this one. I
have an engagement of thirty minutes with my Bible. This is
imperative. Keep that engagement with your Bible as you would keep all
other engagements and you will never lose your Bible under a heap of
dates.

At this time take from the heap of rubbish the book of fashion plates.
"Must attend to this book--every month brings me something new. If I
hold my own with 'my set' I must follow the fashion plates to appear
just right." This is burning incense to the Goddess of Vanity, and
this Goddess is not satisfied with a fragment of time, but it demands
full time and it generally gets it. Fashion plates and the scriptures
are impossible mates. They never mix well because they are not of one
blood. So the plate stays and the Bible goes under it. It is right
that we should give attention to our dress and address, and the way to
do this is to seek the Bible way of beauty of dress and character
adornment. To look beautiful we must commence to be beautiful inside,
and at last it will shine forth and transfigure the outside. Follow
the teaching of the Bible and be pure in heart: put on the robe of
Christ's righteousness, and then you will be in heavenly style and
unmatched by anything the wide world can dream of for personal
adornment. Follow the Bible, the world's divine fashion plate.

Next remove the theatrical poster. In this day the popular amusements
have gripped the young people with a mad hand. No time for the Bible.
Much time for the show. "What shall I do to amuse myself" is the
cardinal question of this age and every moment possible is given over
to the answer. People grow white in the face in their excessive
seeking to find the latest thrill, and they stay white until he cold
hand of death gets them. Pleasures pure are pleasures right. At the
right hand of God there are pleasures forever more. If they are right
for heaven, they are right for the world, but pleasures worshipped are
always bad for they are tipped with sin and bar the gates of heaven
from the pleasures at the "right hand of God." There is deep sweet
pleasure in the reading of God's word. Sing with Psalm 103. Whisper
Psalm 23 when the night cometh. Read John 14 when the darkness is at
hand, and nothing in the wide, wide world can be compared to the heart
pleasure this gives. It puts the soul in touch with a little bit of
heaven. Don't cover up God's great pleasure garden--the Bible--with a
ton of worthless worn out, dried and faded earthly flowers.

Now take off the cash book. The Bible has often been hidden by the
business ledger,--so often business crowds the Bible out. Hard work,
mental strain, and the fierce fight of the present day business man
gives but short time for the reading of the Bible, and more often no
time at all. Head and nerves are worn out at the end of the day, and
the soul also is worn out with business cares, so the cash box, the
ledger and typewriter have covered up the Bible and it is out of sight
and buried under business activities. It must be remembered in this
day of fever heat and mad rush that a business man must give his
utmost to his trade if he wishes to put it over, but it should also be
remembered that in the soul's great ledger if "A man gains the whole
world" it is reckoned as loss in the Book of God. We can serve God and
read His Book and yet be successful. Mr. John Wanamaker, the best
known citizen, and foremost Christian of the business world of
America, blended the Bible with his great commercial enterprises by
always putting up a Bible verse over his office desk and mixing up its
truth with the trade of the day. He honored God's word and God honored
his trade. He never lost his Bible under his cash register.

Now remove the bundle of Sunday newspapers. It is because these are
read on Sunday that no time is found to read God's book on God's day.
The newspaper is on the Sunday morning breakfast table inviting us to
spend Sunday with it. No time to read the Bible. The Sunday Newspapers
often contain as many words as the entire New Testament. We will read
the papers first, after that we have no time or mind for the Book.
Very often if all the words we read were counted they would be more
than the words of the four gospels and yet we have no time to read
even a chapter of God's good book. We mean we have no mind to read it.
We have buried it under the sensational and often nauseous Sunday
newspaper. After we lift up the last paper from the Bible, we exclaim
"God's Book--long lost--now found." Lift the Bible up and say "I will
place it next to my heart and cover it with my love, so shall the
Bible not be covered with sin. 'Thy word have I hid in my heart.' May
it always thus be covered and evermore in the battle and strife of
life my Bible shall always be first."

A great merchant in the city of Philadelphia, submerged with business
cares and thoughtless about God, said to his little boy one day he had
no time to read the Bible, he was so bothered with bonds and stocks.
His little boy could not understand these big words, and continued to
ask him to read his Bible and be good. One morning the father came
down stairs with a quick step and hurried to his paper to look over
the morning news when the little boy just recovering from a severe
spell of sickness, crept up into his lap and said "Bible first,
Daddy." The father looked into his little pale face and his heart was
touched, his eyes filled with tears, and he said "It shall be as you
say, dear little fellow. God has given you back to me, and I will go
back to my Bible" and he did, and he said it made a great man of him
and a greater merchant also. Let this be your motto "Bible first" and
it will never be buried under the rubbish of the things of this life
again. "The Bible first, Daddy," is the voice of God.




                             =CHAPTER XXX
                         THE CHRISTMAS CANDLE=

       _Objects used; A Small Candle; in a Common Candlestick; A
       Representation of a Window. This is a Story Object Sermon_

                         THE CHRISTMAS CANDLE

CHRISTMAS fires and lights are as old as the story of the birth of
Jesus. The earliest form of lighting was the wood fire in the cave.
Around this light the ancients sat and told the stories of old. Around
the fire on the field of the shepherds, sat the ancient guardians of
the sheep, as they read from the holy parchment, of the "coming ONE"
and as they sat watching the dying embers of some such fire, were
startled by flash of heavenly light and heard the angels' song of the
new-born King. That was the first Christmas light. Ever since that
day, whenever the glad Christmas day approaches, lights, beautiful and
cheerful seem to shine out the glad light of the first Christmas day
and so from window on hill top or valley, from tree and toy room of
countless homes, the Christmas candle plays its happy part in the
drama of Merry Christmas. To illustrate this Christmas candle story,
construct a large background like the inside view of a window, and
place a tall candle in front of it. If the window cannot be erected
draw one on a blackboard or sketch one on a piece of muslin. If there
is a small window in the alcove of the pulpit platform in good sight
of the people, use that. Then tell the following story: A little
crippled child, in one of the back alleys of a great city, wondered
what she could do to brighten Christmas day for some one else. She was
too poor to give even "the widow's mite" yet she had a kindly heart
for other children poorer than herself. Her mother, with tears
dropping from her eyes, said "God had not made it possible for us to
do anything for the rest of the world except just to be glad and they
would both try to do that in the name of the little Lord Jesus, who
was once as poor as they." She remembered that in her own native land,
far over the sea, the children of her childhood always put a lighted
candle in the window (here light the candle in front of the window)
which sent out a cheerful light over the snow on Christmas. They could
do that, at least, and with a glad heart they lit the candle and
prayed "God bless the light." From the outside the little glittering
light looked like the star of Bethlehem. The darkness hid the ugly
surroundings of the dilapidated home and it looked supremely beautiful
on the "Night of Nights." A laboring man, hastening by to the corner
saloon, with his wages in his pocket, thinking only of himself and a
night of sin, saw the light in the window. Said he, "It is Christmas
eve" and all about him he saw, hastening to and fro, men and women
bearing Christmas gifts to the loved ones. It had been many a year
since he had made his little ones happy by Christmas gifts. He had
forgotten Christmas was so near until he saw the little candle in the
window. The light held him--a prisoner--It called him back--back to
his childhood days and the happy Christmas time he had spent in his
own home. His father and mother had taught him in the early days to
love God and keep His Commandments. He wiped away a tear--turned about
face as he looked again at the Christmas candle, and went home. They
had a Merry Christmas in that home that glad day, and the poor little
girl's Christmas candle blessed of God, brought the wayward son back
to God, home, and Christmas. Just across the narrow alley, a window of
a room, in which an old man, worn out with years, trying to sleep,
heard the snow beating against the window pane, arose and looked out
at the falling snow. As he did so, he saw the light in the window
across the way. That reminded him it was again Christmas eve. Not for
long years had he even given it a serious or religious thought. He had
lived for self alone because he was alone. His children had forsaken
him; wife had died long years ago, but somehow this light had "got
him" also. Memories of other years came back and rang the Christmas
bells of long ago. In his thoughts he was back to his childhood day.
How happy those memories made him feel. "Christmas back again" said he
as he looked again at this lone light in the window across the way.
"I'll put one in my window" and he relit the candle he had
extinguished as he slipped into bed. Another window with a candle in
it was shining out until, when midnight came, the dark alley was aglow
with lighted windows. The old man said as he closed his eyes in
slumber, "Tomorrow I will make the day merry for the little mother and
child across the way" and he kept his promise.

A lady of high degree and great wealth, passed by in her car loaded
with Christmas gifts, saw the little girl's Christmas candle in the
window. She stopped at the house, hurried upstairs, there she saw the
poor little girl trying to keep Christmas with one candle. The good
lady's heart was touched by the child's simple faith and beautiful
little deed, left for her toys and little comforts, that the dear
mother and little girl accepted with tears of joy. When Christmas day
came, the sleepers in the alley were awakened by the carol singers
chanting "While shepherds watched their flocks by night." Our little
girl who put her Christmas candle in the window was the happiest
little girl in the great city that day. Yes, and not that day only,
but the good lady, attracted by the candle, became a constant friend,
and in all the coming days helped her to win out in life's battle. So
it was Christmas day every day in that humble home, and the lone
Christmas candle in the window had been a candle blessed by God.

                                THE END




                          =Benediction Taps=

             _To be sung at the close of evening meeting_

                            Day has gone
                            Night has come
                            Day has gone
                            Night has come
                            God is near
                            God is near
                            All is well





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GOSPEL OBJECT BOOK ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


